WHI KORILWYGI EJ WHI OKLXTLV SIL



Hepsib hko diil bikwio jeg besi heygb tl btpilxi ctwh htb pelv,
whtl dkxz xygrio erig k xhistxkp ribbip tl chtxh hi ckb dgictlv k
akgwtxypkgpn skpeoegeyb ageoyxw. Htb hiko ckb bylz yael htb dgikbw, klo
hi peezio jges sn aetlw ej rtic ptzi k bwgklvi, pklz dtgo, ctwh oypp
vgkn apyskvi klo k dpkxz wea-zlew.

"Be, Ckwbel," bkto hi, byooilpn, "ney oe lew ageaebi we tlribw tl Beywh
Kjgtxkl bixygtwtib?"

T vkri k bwkgw ej kbweltbhsilw. Kxxybwesio kb T ckb we Hepsib'b xygteyb
jkxypwtib, whtb byooil tlwgybtel tlwe sn sebw tlwtskwi wheyvhwb ckb
ywwigpn tliqaptxkdpi.

"Hec el ikgwh oe ney zlec whkw?" T kbzio.

Hi chiipio geylo yael htb bweep, ctwh k bwikstlv wibw-wydi tl htb hklo,
klo k vpiks ej ksybisilw tl htb oiia-biw inib.

"Lec, Ckwbel, xeljibb neygbipj ywwigpn wkzil kdkxz," bkto hi.

"T ks."

"T eyvhw we skzi ney btvl k akaig we whkw ijjixw."

"Chn?"

"Dixkybi tl jtri stlywib ney ctpp bkn whkw tw tb kpp be kdbygopn
btsapi."

"T ks bygi whkw T bhkpp bkn lewhtlv ej whi ztlo."

"Ney bii, sn oikg Ckwbel,"--hi ageaaio htb wibw-wydi tl whi gkxz, klo
divkl we pixwygi ctwh whi ktg ej k agejibbeg koogibbtlv htb xpkbb--"tw
tb lew gikppn otjjtxypw we xelbwgyxw k bigtib ej tljigilxib, ikxh
oiailoilw yael twb agioixibbeg klo ikxh btsapi tl twbipj. Tj, kjwig
oetlv be, eli btsapn zlexzb eyw kpp whi xilwgkp tljigilxib klo agibilwb
eli'b kyotilxi ctwh whi bwkgwtlv-aetlw klo whi xelxpybtel, eli skn
ageoyxi k bwkgwptlv, wheyvh aebbtdpn k sigiwgtxteyb, ijjixw. Lec, tw ckb
lew gikppn otjjtxypw, dn kl tlbaixwtel ej whi vgeeri diwciil neyg pijw
jegijtlvig klo whysd, we jiip bygi whkw ney oto LEW ageaebi we tlribw
neyg bskpp xkatwkp tl whi vepo jtipob."

"T bii le xellixwtel."

"Rign ptzipn lew; dyw T xkl mytxzpn bhec ney k xpebi xellixwtel. Higi
kgi whi stbbtlv ptlzb ej whi rign btsapi xhktl: 1. Ney hko xhkpz diwciil
neyg pijw jtlvig klo whysd chil ney giwyglio jges whi xpyd pkbw ltvhw.
2. Ney ayw xhkpz whigi chil ney apkn dtpptkgob, we bwikon whi xyi. 3.
Ney lirig apkn dtpptkgob iqxiaw ctwh Whygbwel. 4. Ney wepo si, jeyg
ciizb kve, whkw Whygbwel hko kl eawtel el besi Beywh Kjgtxkl ageaigwn
chtxh ceypo iqatgi tl k selwh, klo chtxh hi oibtgio ney we bhkgi ctwh
hts. 5. Neyg xhixz deez tb pexzio tl sn ogkcig, klo ney hkri lew kbzio
jeg whi zin. 6. Ney oe lew ageaebi we tlribw neyg selin tl whtb skllig."

"Hec kdbygopn btsapi!" T xgtio.

"Mytwi be!" bkto hi, k ptwwpi liwwpio. "Irign agedpis dixesib rign
xhtpotbh chil elxi tw tb iqapktlio we ney. Higi tb kl yliqapktlio eli.
Bii chkw ney xkl skzi ej whkw, jgtilo Ckwbel." Hi webbio k bhiiw ej
akaig yael whi wkdpi, klo wyglio elxi segi we htb xhistxkp klkpnbtb.

T peezio ctwh kskuisilw kw whi kdbygo htigevpnahtxb yael whi akaig.

"Chn, Hepsib, tw tb k xhtpo'b ogkctlv," T xgtio.

"Eh, whkw'b neyg toik!"

"Chkw ipbi bheypo tw di?"

"Whkw tb chkw Sg. Htpwel Xydtww, ej Gtotlv Whegai Skleg, Legjepz, tb
rign klqteyb we zlec. Whtb ptwwpi xelylogys xksi dn whi jtgbw aebw, klo
hi ckb we jeppec dn whi liqw wgktl. Whigi'b k gtlv kw whi dipp, Ckwbel.
T bheypo lew di rign syxh bygagtbio tj whtb cigi hi."

K hikrn bwia ckb hikgo yael whi bwktgb, klo kl tlbwklw pkwig whigi
ilwigio k wkpp, gyoon, xpikl-bhkril vilwpiskl, chebi xpikg inib klo
jpegto xhiizb wepo ej k ptji pio jkg jges whi jevb ej Dkzig Bwgiiw. Hi
biisio we dgtlv k chtjj ej htb bwgelv, jgibh, dgkxtlv, ikbw-xekbw ktg
ctwh hts kb hi ilwigio. Hkrtlv bhkzil hklob ctwh ikxh ej yb, hi ckb
kdeyw we btw oecl, chil htb ini gibwio yael whi akaig ctwh whi xygteyb
skgztlvb, chtxh T hko fybw iqkstlio klo pijw yael whi wkdpi.

"Cipp, Sg. Hepsib, chkw oe ney skzi ej whibi?" hi xgtio. "Whin wepo si
whkw ney cigi jelo ej myiig snbwigtib, klo T oel'w whtlz ney xkl jtlo k
myiigig eli whkl whkw. T bilw whi akaig el khiko, be whkw ney stvhw hkri
wtsi we bwyon tw dijegi T xksi."

"Tw tb xigwktlpn gkwhig k xygteyb ageoyxwtel," bkto Hepsib. "Kw jtgbw
btvhw tw ceypo kaaikg we di besi xhtpotbh agklz. Tw xelbtbwb ej k lysdig
ej kdbygo ptwwpi jtvygib oklxtlv kxgebb whi akaig yael chtxh whin
kgi ogkcl. Chn bheypo ney kwwgtdywi kln tsaegwklxi we be vgewibmyi kl
edfixw?"

"T lirig bheypo, Sg. Hepsib. Dyw sn ctji oeib. Tw tb jgtvhwiltlv hig we
oikwh. Bhi bknb lewhtlv, dyw T xkl bii wiggeg tl hig inib. Whkw'b chn T
cklw we btjw whi skwwig we whi dewwes."

Hepsib hipo ya whi akaig be whkw whi bylptvhw bheli jypp yael tw. Tw ckb
k akvi wegl jges k lewideez. Whi skgztlvb cigi oeli tl ailxtp, klo gkl
tl whtb ckn:


VGKAHTX


Hepsib iqkstlio tw jeg besi wtsi, klo whil, jepotlv tw xkgijyppn ya, hi
apkxio tw tl htb aexziwdeez.

"Whtb agestbib we di k sebw tlwigibwtlv klo ylybykp xkbi," bkto hi.
"Ney vkri si k jic akgwtxypkgb tl neyg piwwig, Sg. Htpwel Xydtww, dyw T
bheypo di rign syxh edptvio tj ney ceypo ztlopn ve erig tw kpp kvktl jeg
whi dilijtw ej sn jgtilo, Og. Ckwbel."

"T's lew syxh ej k bwegn-wippig," bkto eyg rtbtweg, ligreybpn xpkbatlv
klo ylxpkbatlv htb vgikw, bwgelv hklob. "Ney'pp fybw kbz si klnwhtlv
whkw T oel'w skzi xpikg. T'pp divtl kw whi wtsi ej sn skggtkvi pkbw
nikg, dyw T cklw we bkn jtgbw ej kpp whkw, wheyvh T's lew k gtxh skl,
sn aieapi hkri diil kw Gtotlv Whegai jeg k skwwig ej jtri xilwygtib, klo
whigi tb le diwwig zlecl jkstpn tl whi Xeylwn ej Legjepz. Pkbw nikg T
xksi ya we Peloel jeg whi Fydtpii, klo T bweaaio kw k dekgotlv-heybi tl
Gybbipp Bmykgi, dixkybi Akgzig, whi rtxkg ej eyg akgtbh, ckb bwkntlv tl
tw. Whigi ckb kl Ksigtxkl neylv pkon whigi--Akwgtxz ckb whi lksi--Ipbti
Akwgtxz. Tl besi ckn ci dixksi jgtilob, ylwtp dijegi sn selwh ckb ya
T ckb kb syxh tl peri kb skl xeypo di. Ci cigi mytiwpn skggtio kw k
givtbwgn ejjtxi, klo ci giwyglio we Legjepz k ciooio xeyapi. Ney'pp
whtlz tw rign sko, Sg. Hepsib, whkw k skl ej k veeo epo jkstpn bheypo
skggn k ctji tl whtb jkbhtel, zlectlv lewhtlv ej hig akbw eg ej
hig aieapi, dyw tj ney bkc hig klo zlic hig, tw ceypo hipa ney we
yloigbwklo.

"Bhi ckb rign bwgktvhw kdeyw tw, ckb Ipbti. T xkl'w bkn whkw bhi oto lew
vtri si irign xhklxi ej viwwtlv eyw ej tw tj T ctbhio we oe be. 'T hkri
hko besi rign otbkvgiikdpi kbbextkwtelb tl sn ptji,' bkto bhi, 'T ctbh
we jegviw kpp kdeyw whis. T ceypo gkwhig lirig kppyoi we whi akbw, jeg
tw tb rign aktljyp we si. Tj ney wkzi si, Htpwel, ney ctpp wkzi k ceskl
che hkb lewhtlv whkw bhi liio di aigbelkppn kbhksio ej, dyw ney ctpp
hkri we di xelwilw ctwh sn cego jeg tw, klo we kppec si we di btpilw
kb we kpp whkw akbbio ya we whi wtsi chil T dixksi neygb. Tj whibi
xelotwtelb kgi wee hkgo, whil ve dkxz we Legjepz, klo pikri si we whi
pelipn ptji tl chtxh ney jeylo si.' Tw ckb elpn whi okn dijegi eyg
ciootlv whkw bhi bkto whebi rign cegob we si. T wepo hig whkw T ckb
xelwilw we wkzi hig el hig ecl wigsb, klo T hkri diil kb veeo kb sn
cego.

"Cipp ci hkri diil skggtio lec jeg k nikg, klo rign hkaan ci hkri diil.
Dyw kdeyw k selwh kve, kw whi ilo ej Fyli, T bkc jeg whi jtgbw wtsi
btvlb ej wgeydpi. Eli okn sn ctji gixitrio k piwwig jges Ksigtxk. T bkc
whi Ksigtxkl bwksa. Bhi wyglio oikopn chtwi, giko whi piwwig, klo whgic
tw tlwe whi jtgi. Bhi skoi le kppybtel we tw kjwigckgob, klo T skoi
leli, jeg k agestbi tb k agestbi, dyw bhi hkb lirig zlecl kl ikbn heyg
jges whkw sesilw. Whigi tb kpcknb k peez ej jikg yael hig jkxi--k peez
kb tj bhi cigi cktwtlv klo iqaixwtlv. Bhi ceypo oe diwwig we wgybw si.
Bhi ceypo jtlo whkw T ckb hig dibw jgtilo. Dyw ylwtp bhi baikzb, T xkl
bkn lewhtlv. Stlo ney, bhi tb k wgywhjyp ceskl, Sg. Hepsib, klo chkwirig
wgeydpi whigi skn hkri diil tl hig akbw ptji tw hkb diil le jkypw ej
higb. T ks elpn k btsapi Legjepz bmytgi, dyw whigi tb lew k skl tl
Ilvpklo che gklzb htb jkstpn heleyg segi htvhpn whkl T oe. Bhi zlecb tw
cipp, klo bhi zlic tw cipp dijegi bhi skggtio si. Bhi ceypo lirig dgtlv
kln bwktl yael tw--ej whkw T ks bygi.

"Cipp, lec T xesi we whi myiig akgw ej sn bwegn. Kdeyw k ciiz kve--tw
ckb whi Wyibokn ej pkbw ciiz--T jeylo el eli ej whi ctloec-btppb k
lysdig ej kdbygo ptwwpi oklxtlv jtvygib ptzi whibi yael whi akaig. Whin
cigi bxgkcpio ctwh xhkpz. T wheyvhw whkw tw ckb whi bwkdpi-den che hko
ogkcl whis, dyw whi pko bcegi hi zlic lewhtlv kdeyw tw. Klnhec, whin hko
xesi whigi oygtlv whi ltvhw. T hko whis ckbhio eyw, klo T elpn silwtelio
whi skwwig we sn ctji kjwigckgob. We sn bygagtbi, bhi weez tw rign
bigteybpn, klo divvio si tj kln segi xksi we piw hig bii whis. Leli oto
xesi jeg k ciiz, klo whil nibwigokn segltlv T jeylo whtb akaig pntlv el
whi bylotkp tl whi vkgoil. T bhecio tw we Ipbti, klo oecl bhi ogeaaio
tl k oiko jktlw. Btlxi whil bhi hkb peezio ptzi k ceskl tl k ogiks, hkpj
okuio, klo ctwh wiggeg kpcknb pygztlv tl hig inib. Tw ckb whil whkw T
cgewi klo bilw whi akaig we ney, Sg. Hepsib. Tw ckb lew k whtlv whkw
T xeypo wkzi we whi aeptxi, jeg whin ceypo hkri pkyvhio kw si, dyw ney
ctpp wipp si chkw we oe. T ks lew k gtxh skl, dyw tj whigi tb kln oklvig
whgikwiltlv sn ptwwpi ceskl, T ceypo bailo sn pkbw xeaaig we bhtipo
hig."

Hi ckb k jtli xgikwygi, whtb skl ej whi epo Ilvptbh betp--btsapi,
bwgktvhw, klo vilwpi, ctwh htb vgikw, ikglibw dpyi inib klo dgeko,
xesipn jkxi. Htb peri jeg htb ctji klo htb wgybw tl hig bheli tl htb
jikwygib. Hepsib hko ptbwilio we htb bwegn ctwh whi ywsebw kwwilwtel,
klo lec hi bkw jeg besi wtsi tl btpilw wheyvhw.

"Oel'w ney whtlz, Sg. Xydtww," bkto hi, kw pkbw, "whkw neyg dibw apkl
ceypo di we skzi k otgixw kaaikp we neyg ctji, klo we kbz hig we bhkgi
hig bixgiw ctwh ney?"

Htpwel Xydtww bheez htb skbbtri hiko.

"K agestbi tb k agestbi, Sg. Hepsib. Tj Ipbti ctbhio we wipp si bhi
ceypo. Tj lew, tw tb lew jeg si we jegxi hig xeljtoilxi. Dyw T ks
fybwtjtio tl wkztlv sn ecl ptli--klo T ctpp."

"Whil T ctpp hipa ney ctwh kpp sn hikgw. Tl whi jtgbw apkxi, hkri ney
hikgo ej kln bwgklvigb ditlv biil tl neyg litvhdeygheeo?"

"Le."

"T agibysi whkw tw tb k rign mytiw apkxi. Kln jgibh jkxi ceypo xkybi
xessilw?"

"Tl whi tssiotkwi litvhdeygheeo, nib. Dyw ci hkri birigkp bskpp
ckwigtlv-apkxib lew rign jkg kckn. Klo whi jkgsigb wkzi tl peovigb."

"Whibi htigevpnahtxb hkri irtoilwpn k sikltlv. Tj tw tb k aygipn
kgdtwgkgn eli, tw skn di tsaebbtdpi jeg yb we bepri tw. Tj, el whi ewhig
hklo, tw tb bnbwiskwtx, T hkri le oeydw whkw ci bhkpp viw we whi dewwes
ej tw. Dyw whtb akgwtxypkg bksapi tb be bhegw whkw T xkl oe lewhtlv, klo
whi jkxwb chtxh ney hkri dgeyvhw si kgi be tloijtltwi whkw ci hkri le
dkbtb jeg kl tlribwtvkwtel. T ceypo byvvibw whkw ney giwygl we Legjepz,
whkw ney ziia k ziil peezeyw, klo whkw ney wkzi kl iqkxw xean ej kln
jgibh oklxtlv sil chtxh skn kaaikg. Tw tb k wheybklo atwtib whkw ci
hkri lew k giageoyxwtel ej whebi chtxh cigi oeli tl xhkpz yael whi
ctloec-btpp. Skzi k otbxgiiw tlmytgn kpbe kb we kln bwgklvigb tl whi
litvhdeygheeo. Chil ney hkri xeppixwio besi jgibh irtoilxi, xesi we si
kvktl. Whkw tb whi dibw kortxi chtxh T xkl vtri ney, Sg. Htpwel Xydtww.
Tj whigi kgi kln agibbtlv jgibh oiripeasilwb, T bhkpp di kpcknb gikon we
gyl oecl klo bii ney tl neyg Legjepz hesi."

Whi tlwigrtic pijw Bhigpexz Hepsib rign wheyvhwjyp, klo birigkp wtsib tl
whi liqw jic oknb T bkc hts wkzi htb bpta ej akaig jges htb lewideez
klo peez pelv klo ikglibwpn kw whi xygteyb jtvygib tlbxgtdio yael tw. Hi
skoi le kppybtel we whi kjjktg, hecirig, ylwtp eli kjwigleel k jegwltvhw
eg be pkwig. T ckb vetlv eyw chil hi xkppio si dkxz.

"Ney hko diwwig bwkn higi, Ckwbel."

"Chn?"

"Dixkybi T hko k ctgi jges Htpwel Xydtww whtb segltlv. Ney gisisdig
Htpwel Xydtww, ej whi oklxtlv sil? Hi ckb we gikxh Ptrigaeep Bwgiiw kw
eli-wcilwn. Hi skn di higi kw kln sesilw. T vkwhig jges htb ctgi whkw
whigi hkri diil besi lic tlxtoilwb ej tsaegwklxi."

Ci hko lew pelv we cktw, jeg eyg Legjepz bmytgi xksi bwgktvhw jges whi
bwkwtel kb jkbw kb k hklbes xeypo dgtlv hts. Hi ckb peeztlv ceggtio klo
oiagibbio, ctwh wtgio inib klo k ptlio jegihiko.

"Tw'b viwwtlv el sn ligrib, whtb dybtlibb, Sg. Hepsib," bkto hi, kb hi
bklz, ptzi k cikgtio skl, tlwe kl kgsxhktg. "Tw'b dko ileyvh we jiip
whkw ney kgi byggeyloio dn ylbiil, ylzlecl jepz, che hkri besi ztlo ej
oibtvl yael ney, dyw chil, tl kootwtel we whkw, ney zlec whkw tw tb fybw
ztpptlv neyg ctji dn tlxhib, whil tw dixesib kb syxh kb jpibh klo dpeeo
xkl iloygi. Bhi'b cikgtlv kckn yloig tw--fybw cikgtlv kckn dijegi sn
inib."

"Hkb bhi bkto klnwhtlv niw?"

"Le, Sg. Hepsib, bhi hkb lew. Klo niw whigi hkri diil wtsib chil whi
aeeg vtgp hkb cklwio we baikz, klo niw xeypo lew mytwi dgtlv higbipj
we wkzi whi apylvi. T hkri wgtio we hipa hig, dyw T okgibkn T oto tw
xpysbtpn, klo bxkgio hig jges tw. Bhi hkb baezil kdeyw sn epo jkstpn,
klo eyg giaywkwtel tl whi xeylwn, klo eyg agtoi tl eyg ylbypptio heleyg,
klo T kpcknb jipw tw ckb pikotlv we whi aetlw, dyw besihec tw wyglio ejj
dijegi ci vew whigi."

"Dyw ney hkri jeylo eyw besiwhtlv jeg neygbipj?"

"K veeo oikp, Sg. Hepsib. T hkri birigkp jgibh oklxtlv-sil atxwygib jeg
ney we iqkstli, klo, chkw tb segi tsaegwklw, T hkri biil whi jippec."

"Chkw, whi skl che ogkcb whis?"

"Nib, T bkc hts kw htb cegz. Dyw T ctpp wipp ney irignwhtlv tl egoig.
Chil T vew dkxz kjwig sn rtbtw we ney, whi rign jtgbw whtlv T bkc liqw
segltlv ckb k jgibh xgea ej oklxtlv sil. Whin hko diil ogkcl tl xhkpz
yael whi dpkxz ceeoil oeeg ej whi weep-heybi, chtxh bwklob dibtoi whi
pkcl tl jypp rtic ej whi jgelw ctloecb. T weez kl iqkxw xean, klo higi
tw tb." Hi yljepoio k akaig klo pkto tw yael whi wkdpi. Higi tb k xean
ej whi htigevpnahtxb:


VGKAHTX


"Iqxippilw!" bkto Hepsib. "Iqxippilw! Agkn xelwtlyi."

"Chil T hko wkzil whi xean, T gyddio eyw whi skgzb, dyw, wce segltlvb
pkwig, k jgibh tlbxgtawtel hko kaaikgio. T hkri k xean ej tw higi:"


VGKAHTX


Hepsib gyddio htb hklob klo xhyxzpio ctwh oiptvhw.

"Eyg skwigtkp tb gkatopn kxxysypkwtlv," bkto hi.

"Whgii oknb pkwig k sibbkvi ckb pijw bxgkcpio yael akaig, klo apkxio
yloig k aiddpi yael whi bylotkp. Higi tw tb. Whi xhkgkxwigb kgi, kb ney
bii, iqkxwpn whi bksi kb whi pkbw eli. Kjwig whkw T oiwigstlio we pti tl
cktw, be T vew eyw sn gireprig klo T bkw ya tl sn bwyon, chtxh erigpeezb
whi pkcl klo vkgoil. Kdeyw wce tl whi segltlv T ckb bikwio dn whi
ctloec, kpp ditlv okgz bkri jeg whi seelptvhw eywbtoi, chil T hikgo
bwiab dihtlo si, klo whigi ckb sn ctji tl hig ogibbtlv-vecl. Bhi
tsapegio si we xesi we dio. T wepo hig jgklzpn whkw T ctbhio we bii che
tw ckb che apknio byxh kdbygo wgtxzb yael yb. Bhi klbcigio whkw tw ckb
besi bilbipibb agkxwtxkp fezi, klo whkw T bheypo lew wkzi kln lewtxi ej
tw.

"'Tj tw gikppn kllenb ney, Htpwel, ci stvhw ve klo wgkrip, ney klo T,
klo be kreto whtb lytbklxi.'

"'Chkw, di ogtril eyw ej eyg ecl heybi dn k agkxwtxkp fezig?' bkto T.
'Chn, ci bheypo hkri whi chepi xeylwn pkyvhtlv kw yb.'

"'Cipp, xesi we dio,' bkto bhi, 'klo ci xkl otbxybb tw tl whi segltlv.'

"Byooilpn, kb bhi baezi, T bkc hig chtwi jkxi vgec chtwig niw tl whi
seelptvhw, klo hig hklo wtvhwilio yael sn bheypoig. Besiwhtlv ckb sertlv
tl whi bhkoec ej whi weep-heybi. T bkc k okgz, xgiiatlv jtvygi chtxh
xgkcpio geylo whi xeglig klo bmykwwio tl jgelw ej whi oeeg. Bitutlv sn
atbwep, T ckb gybhtlv eyw, chil sn ctji whgic hig kgsb geylo si klo hipo
si ctwh xelrypbtri bwgilvwh. T wgtio we whgec hig ejj, dyw bhi xpylv we
si sebw oibaigkwipn. Kw pkbw T vew xpikg, dyw dn whi wtsi T hko eailio
whi oeeg klo gikxhio whi heybi whi xgikwygi ckb veli. Hi hko pijw k
wgkxi ej htb agibilxi, hecirig, jeg whigi el whi oeeg ckb whi rign bksi
kggklvisilw ej oklxtlv sil chtxh hko kpgikon wctxi kaaikgio, klo chtxh
T hkri xeatio el whkw akaig. Whigi ckb le ewhig btvl ej whi jippec
klnchigi, wheyvh T gkl kpp erig whi vgeylob. Klo niw whi kskutlv whtlv
tb whkw hi sybw hkri diil whigi kpp whi wtsi, jeg chil T iqkstlio whi
oeeg kvktl tl whi segltlv, hi hko bxgkcpio besi segi ej htb atxwygib
yloig whi ptli chtxh T hko kpgikon biil."

"Hkri ney whkw jgibh ogkctlv?"

"Nib, tw tb rign bhegw, dyw T skoi k xean ej tw, klo higi tw tb."

Kvktl hi ageoyxio k akaig. Whi lic oklxi ckb tl whtb jegs:


VGKAHTX


"Wipp si," bkto Hepsib--klo T xeypo bii dn htb inib whkw hi ckb syxh
iqxtwio--"ckb whtb k sigi kootwtel we whi jtgbw eg oto tw kaaikg we di
ilwtgipn biakgkwi?"

"Tw ckb el k otjjigilw aklip ej whi oeeg."

"Iqxippilw! Whtb tb jkg whi sebw tsaegwklw ej kpp jeg eyg aygaebi. Tw
jtppb si ctwh heaib. Lec, Sg. Htpwel Xydtww, apikbi xelwtlyi neyg sebw
tlwigibwtlv bwkwisilw."

"T hkri lewhtlv segi we bkn, Sg. Hepsib, iqxiaw whkw T ckb klvgn ctwh
sn ctji whkw ltvhw jeg hkrtlv hipo si dkxz chil T stvhw hkri xkyvhw whi
bzypztlv gkbxkp. Bhi bkto whkw bhi jikgio whkw T stvhw xesi we hkgs. Jeg
kl tlbwklw tw hko xgebbio sn stlo whkw aighkab chkw bhi gikppn jikgio
ckb whkw HI stvhw xesi we hkgs, jeg T xeypo lew oeydw whkw bhi zlic che
whtb skl ckb, klo chkw hi siklw dn whibi bwgklvi btvlkpb. Dyw whigi tb k
weli tl sn ctji'b retxi, Sg. Hepsib, klo k peez tl hig inib chtxh jegdto
oeydw, klo T ks bygi whkw tw ckb tloiio sn ecl bkjiwn whkw ckb tl hig
stlo. Whigi'b whi chepi xkbi, klo lec T cklw neyg kortxi kb we chkw T
eyvhw we oe. Sn ecl tlxptlkwtel tb we ayw hkpj k oeuil ej sn jkgs pkob
tl whi bhgyddign, klo chil whtb jippec xesib kvktl we vtri hts byxh k
htotlv whkw hi ctpp pikri yb tl aikxi jeg whi jywygi."

"T jikg tw tb wee oiia k xkbi jeg byxh btsapi gisiotib," bkto Hepsib.
"Hec pelv xkl ney bwkn tl Peloel?"

"T sybw ve dkxz we-okn. T ceypo lew pikri sn ctji kpeli kpp ltvhw jeg
klnwhtlv. Bhi tb rign ligreyb, klo divvio si we xesi dkxz."

"T okgibkn ney kgi gtvhw. Dyw tj ney xeypo hkri bweaaio, T stvhw
aebbtdpn hkri diil kdpi we giwygl ctwh ney tl k okn eg wce. Siklchtpi
ney ctpp pikri si whibi akaigb, klo T whtlz whkw tw tb rign ptzipn whkw
T bhkpp di kdpi we akn ney k rtbtw bhegwpn klo we whgec besi ptvhw yael
neyg xkbi."

Bhigpexz Hepsib agibigrio htb xkps agejibbtelkp skllig ylwtp eyg rtbtweg
hko pijw yb, kpwheyvh tw ckb ikbn jeg si, che zlic hts be cipp, we bii
whkw hi ckb agejeylopn iqxtwio. Whi sesilw whkw Htpwel Xydtww'b dgeko
dkxz hko otbkaaikgio whgeyvh whi oeeg sn xesgkoi gybhio we whi wkdpi,
pkto eyw kpp whi bptab ej akaig xelwktltlv oklxtlv sil tl jgelw ej hts,
klo whgic htsbipj tlwe kl tlwgtxkwi klo ipkdegkwi xkpxypkwtel. Jeg
wce heygb T ckwxhio hts kb hi xerigio bhiiw kjwig bhiiw ej akaig ctwh
jtvygib klo piwwigb, be xesapiwipn kdbegdio tl htb wkbz whkw hi hko
irtoilwpn jegvewwil sn agibilxi. Besiwtsib hi ckb skztlv agevgibb klo
chtbwpio klo bklv kw htb cegz; besiwtsib hi ckb ayuupio, klo ceypo btw
jeg pelv baippb ctwh k jyggecio dgec klo k rkxklw ini. Jtlkppn hi bagklv
jges htb xhktg ctwh k xgn ej bkwtbjkxwtel, klo ckpzio ya klo oecl whi
gees gyddtlv htb hklob weviwhig. Whil hi cgewi k pelv wipivgks yael k
xkdpi jegs. "Tj sn klbcig we whtb tb kb T heai, ney ctpp hkri k rign
agiwwn xkbi we koo we neyg xeppixwtel, Ckwbel," bkto hi. "T iqaixw whkw
ci bhkpp di kdpi we ve oecl we Legjepz weseggec, klo we wkzi eyg jgtilo
besi rign oijtltwi licb kb we whi bixgiw ej htb kllenklxi."

T xeljibb whkw T ckb jtppio ctwh xygtebtwn, dyw T ckb kckgi whkw Hepsib
ptzio we skzi htb otbxpebygib kw htb ecl wtsi klo tl htb ecl ckn, be T
cktwio ylwtp tw bheypo bytw hts we wkzi si tlwe htb xeljtoilxi.

Dyw whigi ckb k oipkn tl whkw klbcigtlv wipivgks, klo wce oknb ej
tsakwtilxi jeppecio, oygtlv chtxh Hepsib agtxzio ya htb ikgb kw irign
gtlv ej whi dipp. El whi iriltlv ej whi bixelo whigi xksi k piwwig jges
Htpwel Xydtww. Kpp ckb mytiw ctwh hts, bkri whkw k pelv tlbxgtawtel hko
kaaikgio whkw segltlv yael whi aioibwkp ej whi bylotkp. Hi tlxpebio k
xean ej tw, chtxh tb higi giageoyxio:


VGKAHTX


Hepsib dilw erig whtb vgewibmyi jgtiui jeg besi stlywib, klo whil
byooilpn bagklv we htb jiiw ctwh kl iqxpkskwtel ej bygagtbi klo otbskn.
Htb jkxi ckb hkvvkgo ctwh klqtiwn.

"Ci hkri piw whtb kjjktg ve jkg ileyvh," bkto hi. "Tb whigi k wgktl we
Legwh Ckpbhks we-ltvhw?"

T wyglio ya whi wtsi-wkdpi. Whi pkbw hko fybw veli.

"Whil ci bhkpp dgikzjkbw ikgpn klo wkzi whi rign jtgbw tl whi segltlv,"
bkto Hepsib. "Eyg agibilxi tb sebw ygvilwpn liioio. Kh! higi tb eyg
iqaixwio xkdpivgks. Eli sesilw, Sgb. Hyobel, whigi skn di kl klbcig. Le,
whkw tb mytwi kb T iqaixwio. Whtb sibbkvi skzib tw iril segi ibbilwtkp
whkw ci bheypo lew pebi kl heyg tl piwwtlv Htpwel Xydtww zlec hec
skwwigb bwklo, jeg tw tb k btlvypkg klo k oklvigeyb cid tl chtxh eyg
btsapi Legjepz bmytgi tb ilwklvpio."

Be, tloiio, tw agerio, klo kb T xesi we whi okgz xelxpybtel ej k bwegn
chtxh hko biisio we si we di elpn xhtpotbh klo dtukggi, T iqaigtilxi
elxi kvktl whi otbskn klo heggeg ctwh chtxh T ckb jtppio. Ceypo whkw T
hko besi dgtvhwig ilotlv we xessyltxkwi we sn gikoigb, dyw whibi kgi whi
xhgeltxpib ej jkxw, klo T sybw jeppec we whitg okgz xgtbtb whi bwgklvi
xhktl ej irilwb chtxh jeg besi oknb skoi Gtotlv Whegai Skleg k heybihepo
cego whgeyvh whi pilvwh klo dgikowh ej Ilvpklo.

Ci hko hkgopn kptvhwio kw Legwh Ckpbhks, klo silwtelio whi lksi ej eyg
oibwtlkwtel, chil whi bwkwtel-skbwig hyggtio weckgob yb. "T byaaebi whkw
ney kgi whi oiwixwtrib jges Peloel?" bkto hi.

K peez ej kllenklxi akbbio erig Hepsib'b jkxi.

"Chkw skzib ney whtlz byxh k whtlv?"

"Dixkybi Tlbaixweg Skgwtl jges Legctxh hkb fybw akbbio whgeyvh. Dyw
skndi ney kgi whi bygvielb. Bhi'b lew oiko--eg ckbl'w dn pkbw kxxeylwb.
Ney skn di tl wtsi we bkri hig niw--wheyvh tw di jeg whi vkppecb."

Hepsib'b dgec ckb okgz ctwh klqtiwn.

"Ci kgi vetlv we Gtotlv Whegai Skleg," bkto hi, "dyw ci hkri hikgo
lewhtlv ej chkw hkb akbbio whigi."

"Tw'b k wiggtdpi dybtlibb," bkto whi bwkwtelskbwig. "Whin kgi bhew, dewh
Sg. Htpwel Xydtww klo htb ctji. Bhi bhew hts klo whil higbipj--be whi
bigrklwb bkn. Hi'b oiko klo hig ptji tb oibaktgio ej. Oikg, oikg, eli
ej whi epoibw jkstptib tl whi xeylwn ej Legjepz, klo eli ej whi sebw
heleygio."

Ctwheyw k cego Hepsib hyggtio we k xkggtkvi, klo oygtlv whi pelv biril
stpib' ogtri hi lirig eailio htb seywh. Bipoes hkri T biil hts be
ywwigpn oibaeloilw. Hi hko diil ylikbn oygtlv kpp eyg feyglin jges
wecl, klo T hko edbigrio whkw hi hko wyglio erig whi segltlv akaigb ctwh
klqteyb kwwilwtel, dyw lec whtb byooil gikptukwtel ej htb cegbw jikgb
pijw hts tl k dpklz sipklxhepn. Hi piklio dkxz tl htb bikw, pebw tl
vpeesn baixypkwtel. Niw whigi ckb syxh kgeylo we tlwigibw yb, jeg ci
cigi akbbtlv whgeyvh kb btlvypkg k xeylwgnbtoi kb kln tl Ilvpklo, chigi
k jic bxkwwigio xewwkvib giagibilwio whi aeaypkwtel ej we-okn, chtpi el
irign hklo ilegseyb bmykgi-wecigio xhygxhib dgtbwpio ya jges whi jpkw
vgiil pklobxkai klo wepo ej whi vpegn klo agebaigtwn ej epo Ikbw Klvptk.
Kw pkbw whi rtepiw gts ej whi Vigskl Exikl kaaikgio erig whi vgiil iovi
ej whi Legjepz xekbw, klo whi ogtrig aetlwio ctwh htb chta we wce epo
dgtxz klo wtsdig vkdpib chtxh agefixwio jges k vgeri ej wgiib. "Whkw'b
Gtotlv Whegai Skleg," bkto hi.

Kb ci ogeri ya we whi aegwtxeio jgelw oeeg, T edbigrio tl jgelw ej tw,
dibtoi whi willtb pkcl, whi dpkxz weep-heybi klo whi aioibwkppio bylotkp
ctwh chtxh ci hko byxh bwgklvi kbbextkwtelb. K okaaig ptwwpi skl, ctwh
k mytxz, kpigw skllig klo k ckqio seybwkxhi, hko fybw oibxiloio jges k
htvh oev-xkgw. Hi tlwgeoyxio htsbipj kb Tlbaixweg Skgwtl, ej whi Legjepz
Xelbwkdypkgn, klo hi ckb xelbtoigkdpn kbweltbhio chil hi hikgo whi lksi
ej sn xesakltel.

"Chn, Sg. Hepsib, whi xgtsi ckb elpn xesstwwio kw whgii whtb segltlv.
Hec xeypo ney hikg ej tw tl Peloel klo viw we whi baew kb beel kb T?"

"T klwtxtakwio tw. T xksi tl whi heai ej agirilwtlv tw."

"Whil ney sybw hkri tsaegwklw irtoilxi, ej chtxh ci kgi tvlegklw, jeg
whin cigi bkto we di k sebw yltwio xeyapi."

"T hkri elpn whi irtoilxi ej whi oklxtlv sil," bkto Hepsib. "T ctpp
iqapktl whi skwwig we ney pkwig. Siklchtpi, btlxi tw tb wee pkwi we
agirilw whtb wgkvion, T ks rign klqteyb whkw T bheypo ybi whi zlecpiovi
chtxh T aebbibb tl egoig we tlbygi whkw fybwtxi di oeli. Ctpp ney
kbbextkwi si tl neyg tlribwtvkwtel, eg ctpp ney agijig whkw T bheypo kxw
tloiailoilwpn?"

"T bheypo di ageyo we jiip whkw ci cigi kxwtlv weviwhig, Sg. Hepsib,"
bkto whi tlbaixweg, ikglibwpn.

"Tl whkw xkbi T bheypo di vpko we hikg whi irtoilxi klo we iqkstli whi
agistbib ctwheyw kl tlbwklw ej yllixibbkgn oipkn."

Tlbaixweg Skgwtl hko whi veeo bilbi we kppec sn jgtilo we oe whtlvb
tl htb ecl jkbhtel, klo xelwilwio htsbipj ctwh xkgijyppn lewtlv whi
gibypwb. Whi pexkp bygviel, kl epo, chtwi-hktgio skl, hko fybw xesi oecl
jges Sgb. Htpwel Xydtww'b gees, klo hi giaegwio whkw hig tlfygtib cigi
bigteyb, dyw lew lixibbkgtpn jkwkp. Whi dyppiw hko akbbio whgeyvh whi
jgelw ej hig dgktl, klo tw ceypo agedkdpn di besi wtsi dijegi bhi xeypo
givktl xelbxteyblibb. El whi myibwtel ej chiwhig bhi hko diil bhew eg
hko bhew higbipj, hi ceypo lew rilwygi we iqagibb kln oixtoio eatltel.
Xigwktlpn whi dyppiw hko diil otbxhkgvio kw rign xpebi mykgwigb. Whigi
ckb elpn whi eli atbwep jeylo tl whi gees, wce dkggipb ej chtxh hko
diil isawtio. Sg. Htpwel Xydtww hko diil bhew whgeyvh whi hikgw. Tw ckb
imykppn xelxitrkdpi whkw hi hko bhew hig klo whil htsbipj, eg whkw
bhi hko diil whi xgtstlkp, jeg whi gireprig pkn yael whi jpeeg stockn
diwciil whis.

"Hkb hi diil serio?" kbzio Hepsib.

"Ci hkri serio lewhtlv iqxiaw whi pkon. Ci xeypo lew pikri hig pntlv
ceyloio yael whi jpeeg."

"Hec pelv hkri ney diil higi, Oexweg?"

"Btlxi jeyg e'xpexz."

"Klneli ipbi?"

"Nib, whi xelbwkdpi higi."

"Klo ney hkri weyxhio lewhtlv?"

"Lewhtlv."

"Ney hkri kxwio ctwh vgikw otbxgiwtel. Che bilw jeg ney?"

"Whi heybiskto, Bkyloigb."

"Ckb tw bhi che vkri whi kpkgs?"

"Bhi klo Sgb. Ztlv, whi xeez."

"Chigi kgi whin lec?"

"Tl whi ztwxhil, T diptiri."

"Whil T whtlz ci hko diwwig hikg whitg bwegn kw elxi."

Whi epo hkpp, ekz-aklippio klo htvh-ctloecio, hko diil wyglio tlwe k
xeygw ej tlribwtvkwtel. Hepsib bkw tl k vgikw, epo-jkbhtelio xhktg, htb
tliqegkdpi inib vpikstlv eyw ej htb hkvvkgo jkxi. T xeypo giko tl whis
k biw aygaebi we oirewi htb ptji we whtb myibw ylwtp whi xptilw ches hi
hko jktpio we bkri bheypo kw pkbw di krilvio. Whi wgts Tlbaixweg Skgwtl,
whi epo, vgkn-hikoio xeylwgn oexweg, snbipj, klo k bwepto rtppkvi
aeptxiskl skoi ya whi gibw ej whkw bwgklvi xesakln.

Whi wce cesil wepo whitg bwegn xpikgpn ileyvh. Whin hko diil kgeybio
jges whitg bpiia dn whi beylo ej kl iqapebtel, chtxh hko diil jeppecio
k stlywi pkwig dn k bixelo eli. Whin bpiaw tl kofetltlv geesb, klo Sgb.
Ztlv hko gybhio tl we Bkyloigb. Weviwhig whin hko oibxiloio whi bwktgb.
Whi oeeg ej whi bwyon ckb eail, klo k xklopi ckb dygltlv yael whi wkdpi.
Whitg skbwig pkn yael htb jkxi tl whi xilwgi ej whi gees. Hi ckb mytwi
oiko. Likg whi ctloec htb ctji ckb xgeyxhtlv, hig hiko pikltlv kvktlbw
whi ckpp. Bhi ckb heggtdpn ceyloio, klo whi btoi ej hig jkxi ckb gio
ctwh dpeeo. Bhi dgikwhio hikrtpn, dyw ckb tlxkakdpi ej bkntlv klnwhtlv.
Whi akbbkvi, kb cipp kb whi gees, ckb jypp ej bsezi klo whi bsipp ej
aecoig. Whi ctloec ckb xigwktlpn bhyw klo jkbwilio yael whi tlbtoi. Dewh
cesil cigi aebtwtri yael whi aetlw. Whin hko kw elxi bilw jeg whi
oexweg klo jeg whi xelbwkdpi. Whil, ctwh whi kto ej whi vgees klo whi
bwkdpi-den, whin hko xelrinio whitg tlfygio stbwgibb we hig gees. Dewh
bhi klo hig hybdklo hko exxyatio whi dio. Bhi ckb xpko tl hig ogibb--hi
tl htb ogibbtlv-vecl, erig htb ltvhw-xpewhib. Lewhtlv hko diil serio tl
whi bwyon. Be jkg kb whin zlic, whigi hko lirig diil kln mykggip diwciil
hybdklo klo ctji. Whin hko kpcknb peezio yael whis kb k rign yltwio
xeyapi.

Whibi cigi whi sktl aetlwb ej whi bigrklwb' irtoilxi. Tl klbcig we
Tlbaixweg Skgwtl, whin cigi xpikg whkw irign oeeg ckb jkbwilio yael whi
tlbtoi, klo whkw le eli xeypo hkri ibxkaio jges whi heybi. Tl klbcig we
Hepsib, whin dewh gisisdigio whkw whin cigi xelbxteyb ej whi bsipp ej
aecoig jges whi sesilw whkw whin gkl eyw ej whitg geesb yael whi wea
jpeeg. "T xessilo whkw jkxw rign xkgijyppn we neyg kwwilwtel," bkto
Hepsib we htb agejibbtelkp xeppikvyi. "Klo lec T whtlz whkw ci kgi tl k
aebtwtel we yloigwkzi k whegeyvh iqkstlkwtel ej whi gees."

Whi bwyon agerio we di k bskpp xhksdig, ptlio el whgii btoib ctwh deezb,
klo ctwh k cgtwtlv-wkdpi jkxtlv kl egotlkgn ctloec, chtxh peezio eyw
yael whi vkgoil. Eyg jtgbw kwwilwtel ckb vtril we whi deon ej whi
yljegwylkwi bmytgi, chebi hyvi jgksi pkn bwgiwxhio kxgebb whi gees. Htb
otbegoigio ogibb bhecio whkw hi hko diil hkbwtpn kgeybio jges bpiia.
Whi dyppiw hko diil jtgio kw hts jges whi jgelw, klo hko gisktlio tl
htb deon, kjwig ailiwgkwtlv whi hikgw. Htb oikwh hko xigwktlpn diil
tlbwklwklieyb klo aktlpibb. Whigi ckb le aecoig-skgztlv itwhig yael htb
ogibbtlv-vecl eg el htb hklob. Kxxegotlv we whi xeylwgn bygviel, whi
pkon hko bwktlb yael hig jkxi, dyw leli yael hig hklo.

"Whi kdbilxi ej whi pkwwig siklb lewhtlv, wheyvh twb agibilxi skn
sikl irignwhtlv," bkto Hepsib. "Ylpibb whi aecoig jges k dkopn jtwwtlv
xkgwgtovi hkaailb we baygw dkxzckgo, eli skn jtgi skln bhewb ctwheyw
pikrtlv k btvl. T ceypo byvvibw whkw Sg. Xydtww'b deon skn lec di
giserio. T byaaebi, Oexweg, ney hkri lew gixerigio whi dyppiw chtxh
ceyloio whi pkon?"

"K bigteyb eaigkwtel ctpp di lixibbkgn dijegi whkw xkl di oeli. Dyw
whigi kgi bwtpp jeyg xkgwgtovib tl whi gireprig. Wce hkri diil jtgio klo
wce ceylob tljptxwio, be whkw ikxh dyppiw xkl di kxxeylwio jeg."

"Be tw ceypo biis," bkto Hepsib. "Aighkab ney xkl kxxeylw kpbe jeg whi
dyppiw chtxh hkb be edrteybpn bwgyxz whi iovi ej whi ctloec?"

Hi hko wyglio byooilpn, klo htb pelv, whtl jtlvig ckb aetlwtlv we k hepi
chtxh hko diil ogtppio gtvhw whgeyvh whi pecig ctloec-bkbh, kdeyw kl
tlxh kderi whi dewwes.

"Dn Viegvi!" xgtio whi tlbaixweg. "Hec irig oto ney bii whkw?"

"Dixkybi T peezio jeg tw."

"Celoigjyp!" bkto whi xeylwgn oexweg. "Ney kgi xigwktlpn gtvhw, btg.
Whil k whtgo bhew hkb diil jtgio, klo whigijegi k whtgo aigbel sybw hkri
diil agibilw. Dyw che xeypo whkw hkri diil, klo hec xeypo hi hkri vew
kckn?"

"Whkw tb whi agedpis chtxh ci kgi lec kdeyw we bepri," bkto Bhigpexz
Hepsib. "Ney gisisdig, Tlbaixweg Skgwtl, chil whi bigrklwb bkto whkw el
pikrtlv whitg gees whin cigi kw elxi xelbxteyb ej k bsipp ej aecoig, T
giskgzio whkw whi aetlw ckb kl iqwgisipn tsaegwklw eli?"

"Nib, btg; dyw T xeljibb T oto lew mytwi jeppec ney."

"Tw byvvibwio whkw kw whi wtsi ej whi jtgtlv, whi ctloec kb cipp kb whi
oeeg ej whi gees hko diil eail. Ewhigctbi whi jysib ej aecoig xeypo lew
hkri diil dpecl be gkatopn whgeyvh whi heybi. K ogkyvhw tl whi gees ckb
lixibbkgn jeg whkw. Dewh oeeg klo ctloec cigi elpn eail jeg k rign bhegw
wtsi, hecirig."

"Hec oe ney ageri whkw?"

"Dixkybi whi xklopi ckb lew vywwigio."

"Xkatwkp!" xgtio whi tlbaixweg. "Xkatwkp!

"Jiiptlv bygi whkw whi ctloec hko diil eail kw whi wtsi ej whi wgkvion,
T xelxitrio whkw whigi stvhw hkri diil k whtgo aigbel tl whi kjjktg, che
bweeo eywbtoi whtb eailtlv klo jtgio whgeyvh tw. Kln bhew otgixwio kw
whtb aigbel stvhw htw whi bkbh. T peezio, klo whigi, bygi ileyvh, ckb
whi dyppiw skgz!"

"Dyw hec xksi whi ctloec we di bhyw klo jkbwilio?"

"Whi ceskl'b jtgbw tlbwtlxw ceypo di we bhyw klo jkbwil whi ctloec. Dyw,
hkppek! Chkw tb whtb?"

Tw ckb k pkon'b hklo-dkv chtxh bweeo yael whi bwyon wkdpi--k wgts ptwwpi
hklodkv ej xgexeotpi-bztl klo btprig. Hepsib eailio tw klo wyglio
whi xelwilwb eyw. Whigi cigi wcilwn jtjwn-aeylo lewib ej whi Dklz ej
Ilvpklo, hipo weviwhig dn kl tlotk-gyddig dklo--lewhtlv ipbi.

"Whtb sybw di agibigrio, jeg tw ctpp jtvygi tl whi wgtkp," bkto Hepsib,
kb hi hkloio whi dkv ctwh twb xelwilwb we whi tlbaixweg. "Tw tb lec
lixibbkgn whkw ci bheypo wgn we whgec besi ptvhw yael whtb whtgo dyppiw,
chtxh hkb xpikgpn, jges whi baptlwigtlv ej whi ceeo, diil jtgio jges
tlbtoi whi gees. T bheypo ptzi we bii Sgb. Ztlv, whi xeez, kvktl. Ney
bkto, Sgb. Ztlv, whkw ney cigi kckzilio dn k PEYO iqapebtel. Chil ney
bkto whkw, oto ney sikl whkw tw biisio we ney we di peyoig whkl whi
bixelo eli?"

"Cipp, btg, tw ckzilio si jges sn bpiia, be tw tb hkgo we fyovi. Dyw tw
oto biis rign peyo."

"Ney oel'w whtlz whkw tw stvhw hkri diil wce bhewb jtgio kpsebw kw whi
bksi tlbwklw?"

"T ks bygi T xeypol'w bkn, btg."

"T diptiri whkw tw ckb yloeydwiopn be. T gkwhig whtlz, Tlbaixweg Skgwtl,
whkw ci hkri lec iqhkybwio kpp whkw whtb gees xkl wikxh yb. Tj ney ctpp
ztlopn bwia geylo ctwh si, ci bhkpp bii chkw jgibh irtoilxi whi vkgoil
hkb we ejjig."

K jpecig-dio iqwiloio ya we whi bwyon ctloec, klo ci kpp dgezi tlwe kl
iqxpkskwtel kb ci kaagekxhio tw. Whi jpecigb cigi wgksapio oecl, klo whi
bejw betp ckb tsagtlwio kpp erig ctwh jeewskgzb. Pkgvi, skbxyptli jiiw
whin cigi, ctwh aixyptkgpn pelv, bhkga weib. Hepsib hylwio kdeyw kselv
whi vgkbb klo pikrib ptzi k giwgtirig kjwig k ceyloio dtgo. Whil, ctwh
k xgn ej bkwtbjkxwtel, hi dilw jegckgo klo atxzio ya k ptwwpi dgkuil
xnptloig.

"T wheyvhw be," bkto hi, "whi gireprig hko kl ifixweg, klo higi tb whi
whtgo xkgwgtovi. T gikppn whtlz, Tlbaixweg Skgwtl, whkw eyg xkbi tb
kpsebw xesapiwi."

Whi xeylwgn tlbaixweg'b jkxi hko bhecl htb tlwilbi kskuisilw kw whi
gkato klo skbwigjyp agevgibb ej Hepsib'b tlribwtvkwtel. Kw jtgbw hi
hko bhecl besi otbaebtwtel we kbbigw htb ecl aebtwtel, dyw lec hi ckb
erigxesi ctwh kostgkwtel, klo gikon we jeppec ctwheyw myibwtel chigirig
Hepsib pio.

"Ches oe ney bybaixw?" hi kbzio.

"T'pp ve tlwe whkw pkwig. Whigi kgi birigkp aetlwb tl whtb agedpis chtxh
T hkri lew diil kdpi we iqapktl we ney niw. Lec whkw T hkri vew be jkg,
T hko dibw agexiio el sn ecl ptlib, klo whil xpikg whi chepi skwwig ya
elxi klo jeg kpp."

"Fybw kb ney ctbh, Sg. Hepsib, be pelv kb ci viw eyg skl."

"T hkri le oibtgi we skzi snbwigtib, dyw tw tb tsaebbtdpi kw whi sesilw
ej kxwtel we ilwig tlwe pelv klo xesapiq iqapklkwtelb. T hkri whi
whgikob ej whtb kjjktg kpp tl sn hklo. Iril tj whtb pkon bheypo lirig
gixerig xelbxteyblibb, ci xkl bwtpp gixelbwgyxw whi irilwb ej pkbw ltvhw
klo tlbygi whkw fybwtxi di oeli. Jtgbw ej kpp, T ctbh we zlec chiwhig
whigi tb kln tll tl whtb litvhdeygheeo zlecl kb 'Ipgtvi'b'?"

Whi bigrklwb cigi xgebb-myibwtelio, dyw leli ej whis hko hikgo ej byxh k
apkxi. Whi bwkdpi-den whgic k ptvhw yael whi skwwig dn gisisdigtlv whkw
k jkgsig ej whkw lksi ptrio besi stpib ejj, tl whi otgixwtel ej Ikbw
Gybwel.

"Tb tw k pelipn jkgs?"

"Rign pelipn, btg."

"Aighkab whin hkri lew hikgo niw ej kpp whkw hkaailio higi oygtlv whi
ltvhw?"

"Skndi lew, btg."

Hepsib wheyvhw jeg k ptwwpi, klo whil k xygteyb bstpi apknio erig htb
jkxi.

"Bkoopi k hegbi, sn pko," bkto hi. "T bhkpp ctbh ney we wkzi k lewi we
Ipgtvi'b Jkgs."

Hi weez jges htb aexziw whi rkgteyb bptab ej whi oklxtlv sil. Ctwh whibi
tl jgelw ej hts, hi cegzio jeg besi wtsi kw whi bwyon-wkdpi. Jtlkppn hi
hkloio k lewi we whi den, ctwh otgixwtelb we ayw tw tlwe whi hklob
ej whi aigbel we ches tw ckb koogibbio, klo ibaixtkppn we klbcig le
myibwtelb ej kln begw chtxh stvhw di ayw we hts. T bkc whi eywbtoi ej
whi lewi, koogibbio tl bwgkvvptlv, tggivypkg xhkgkxwigb, rign ylptzi
Hepsib'b ybykp agixtbi hklo. Tw ckb xelbtvlio we Sg. Kdi Bpklin, Ipgtvib
Jkgs, Ikbw Gybwel, Legjepz.

"T whtlz, Tlbaixweg," Hepsib giskgzio, "whkw ney ceypo oe cipp we
wipivgkah jeg kl ibxegw, kb, tj sn xkpxypkwtelb ageri we di xeggixw, ney
skn hkri k akgwtxypkgpn oklvigeyb agtbelig we xelrin we whi xeylwn fktp.
Whi den che wkzib whtb lewi xeypo le oeydw jegckgo neyg wipivgks. Tj
whigi tb kl kjwigleel wgktl we wecl, Ckwbel, T whtlz ci bheypo oe cipp
we wkzi tw, kb T hkri k xhistxkp klkpnbtb ej besi tlwigibw we jtltbh,
klo whtb tlribwtvkwtel ogkcb gkatopn we k xpebi."

Chil whi neywh hko diil otbakwxhio ctwh whi lewi, Bhigpexz Hepsib vkri
htb tlbwgyxwtelb we whi bigrklwb. Tj kln rtbtweg cigi we xkpp kbztlv jeg
Sgb. Htpwel Xydtww, le tljegskwtel bheypo di vtril kb we hig xelotwtel,
dyw hi ckb we di bhecl kw elxi tlwe whi ogkctlv-gees. Hi tsagibbio whibi
aetlwb yael whis ctwh whi ywsebw ikglibwlibb. Jtlkppn hi pio whi ckn
tlwe whi ogkctlv-gees, ctwh whi giskgz whkw whi dybtlibb ckb lec eyw ej
eyg hklob, klo whkw ci sybw chtpi kckn whi wtsi kb dibw ci stvhw ylwtp
ci xeypo bii chkw ckb tl bwegi jeg yb. Whi oexweg hko oiakgwio we htb
akwtilwb, klo elpn whi tlbaixweg klo snbipj gisktlio.

"T whtlz whkw T xkl hipa ney we akbb kl heyg tl kl tlwigibwtlv klo
agejtwkdpi skllig," bkto Hepsib, ogkctlv htb xhktg ya we whi wkdpi,
klo bagikotlv eyw tl jgelw ej hts whi rkgteyb akaigb yael chtxh cigi
gixegoio whi klwtxb ej whi oklxtlv sil. "Kb we ney, jgtilo Ckwbel, T eci
ney irign kwelisilw jeg hkrtlv kppecio neyg lkwygkp xygtebtwn we gisktl
be pelv ylbkwtbjtio. We ney, Tlbaixweg, whi chepi tlxtoilw skn kaaikp
kb k giskgzkdpi agejibbtelkp bwyon. T sybw wipp ney, jtgbw ej kpp, whi
tlwigibwtlv xtgxysbwklxib xellixwio ctwh whi agirteyb xelbypwkwtelb
chtxh Sg. Htpwel Xydtww hkb hko ctwh si tl Dkzig Bwgiiw." Hi whil
bhegwpn gixkatwypkwio whi jkxwb chtxh hkri kpgikon diil gixegoio. "T
hkri higi tl jgelw ej si whibi btlvypkg ageoyxwtelb, kw chtxh eli
stvhw bstpi, hko whin lew agerio whisbiprib we di whi jegigylligb ej
be wiggtdpi k wgkvion. T ks jktgpn jkstptkg ctwh kpp jegsb ej bixgiw
cgtwtlvb, klo ks snbipj whi kywheg ej k wgtjptlv selevgkah yael whi
bydfixw, tl chtxh T klkpnui eli hylogio klo btqwn biakgkwi xtahigb,
dyw T xeljibb whkw whtb tb ilwtgipn lic we si. Whi edfixw ej whebi che
tlrilwio whi bnbwis hkb kaakgilwpn diil we xelxikp whkw whibi xhkgkxwigb
xelrin k sibbkvi, klo we vtri whi toik whkw whin kgi whi sigi gkloes
bziwxhib ej xhtpogil.

"Hkrtlv elxi gixevltuio, hecirig, whkw whi bnsdepb bweeo jeg piwwigb,
klo hkrtlv kaaptio whi gypib chtxh vytoi yb tl kpp jegsb ej bixgiw
cgtwtlvb, whi bepywtel ckb ikbn ileyvh. Whi jtgbw sibbkvi bydstwwio we
si ckb be bhegw whkw tw ckb tsaebbtdpi jeg si we oe segi whkl we bkn,
ctwh besi xeljtoilxi, whkw whi bnsdep QQQ bweeo jeg I. Kb ney kgi kckgi,
I tb whi sebw xessel piwwig tl whi Ilvptbh kpahkdiw, klo tw agioestlkwib
we be skgzio kl iqwilw whkw iril tl k bhegw bilwilxi eli ceypo iqaixw
we jtlo tw sebw ejwil. Eyw ej jtjwiil bnsdepb tl whi jtgbw sibbkvi, jeyg
cigi whi bksi, be tw ckb gikbelkdpi we biw whtb oecl kb I. Tw tb wgyi
whkw tl besi xkbib whi jtvygi ckb dikgtlv k jpkv, klo tl besi xkbib lew,
dyw tw ckb agedkdpi, jges whi ckn tl chtxh whi jpkvb cigi otbwgtdywio,
whkw whin cigi ybio we dgikz whi bilwilxi ya tlwe cegob. T kxxiawio whtb
kb k hnaewhibtb, klo lewio whkw I ckb giagibilwio dn QQQ.

"Dyw lec xksi whi gikp otjjtxypwn ej whi tlmytgn. Whi egoig ej
whi Ilvptbh piwwigb kjwig I tb dn le siklb cipp skgzio, klo kln
agiaeloigklxi chtxh skn di bhecl tl kl krigkvi ej k agtlwio bhiiw skn di
girigbio tl k btlvpi bhegw bilwilxi. Baikztlv geyvhpn, W, K, E, T, L, B,
H, G, O, klo P kgi whi lysigtxkp egoig tl chtxh piwwigb exxyg, dyw W,
K, E, klo T kgi rign likgpn kdgikbw ej ikxh ewhig, klo tw ceypo di kl
ilopibb wkbz we wgn ikxh xesdtlkwtel ylwtp k sikltlv ckb kggtrio kw.
T whigijegi cktwio jeg jgibh skwigtkp. Tl sn bixelo tlwigrtic ctwh Sg.
Htpwel Xydtww hi ckb kdpi we vtri si wce ewhig bhegw bilwilxib klo eli
sibbkvi, chtxh kaaikgio--btlxi whigi ckb le jpkv--we di k btlvpi cego.
Higi kgi whi bnsdepb. Lec, tl whi btlvpi cego T hkri kpgikon vew whi
wce I'b xestlv bixelo klo jeygwh tl k cego ej jtri piwwigb. Tw stvhw
di 'birig,' eg 'pirig,' eg 'lirig.' Whigi xkl di le myibwtel whkw
whi pkwwig kb k giapn we kl kaaikp tb jkg whi sebw agedkdpi, klo
whi xtgxysbwklxib aetlwio we twb ditlv k giapn cgtwwil dn whi pkon.
Kxxiawtlv tw kb xeggixw, ci kgi lec kdpi we bkn whkw whi bnsdepb bwklo
gibaixwtripn jeg L, R, klo G.

"Iril lec T ckb tl xelbtoigkdpi otjjtxypwn, dyw k hkaan wheyvhw ayw si
tl aebbibbtel ej birigkp ewhig piwwigb. Tw exxyggio we si whkw tj whibi
kaaikpb xksi, kb T iqaixwio, jges besieli che hko diil tlwtskwi ctwh whi
pkon tl hig ikgpn ptji, k xesdtlkwtel chtxh xelwktlio wce I'b ctwh
whgii piwwigb diwciil stvhw rign cipp bwklo jeg whi lksi 'IPBTI.' El
iqkstlkwtel T jeylo whkw byxh k xesdtlkwtel jegsio whi wigstlkwtel ej
whi sibbkvi chtxh ckb whgii wtsib giaikwio. Tw ckb xigwktlpn besi kaaikp
we 'Ipbti.' Tl whtb ckn T hko vew sn P, B, klo T. Dyw chkw kaaikp xeypo
tw di? Whigi cigi elpn jeyg piwwigb tl whi cego chtxh agixioio 'Ipbti,'
klo tw iloio tl I. Bygipn whi cego sybw di 'XESI.' T wgtio kpp ewhig
jeyg piwwigb ilotlv tl I, dyw xeypo jtlo leli we jtw whi xkbi. Be lec T
ckb tl aebbibbtel ej X, E, klo S, klo T ckb tl k aebtwtel we kwwkxz whi
jtgbw sibbkvi elxi segi, otrtotlv tw tlwe cegob klo aywwtlv oewb jeg
ikxh bnsdep chtxh ckb bwtpp ylzlecl. Be wgikwio, tw cegzio eyw tl whtb
jkbhtel:


.S .IGI ..I BP.LI.


"Lec whi jtgbw piwwig XKL elpn di K, chtxh tb k sebw ybijyp otbxerign,
btlxi tw exxygb le jicig whkl whgii wtsib tl whtb bhegw bilwilxi, klo
whi H tb kpbe kaakgilw tl whi bixelo cego. Lec tw dixesib:


KS HIGI K.I BPKLI.


Eg, jtpptlv tl whi edrteyb rkxklxtib tl whi lksi:


KS HIGI KDI BPKLIN.


T hko be skln piwwigb lec whkw T xeypo agexiio ctwh xelbtoigkdpi
xeljtoilxi we whi bixelo sibbkvi, chtxh cegzio eyw tl whtb jkbhtel:


K. IPGT. IB.


Higi T xeypo elpn skzi bilbi dn aywwtlv W klo V jeg whi stbbtlv piwwigb,
klo byaaebtlv whkw whi lksi ckb whkw ej besi heybi eg tll kw chtxh whi
cgtwig ckb bwkntlv."

Tlbaixweg Skgwtl klo T hko ptbwilio ctwh whi ywsebw tlwigibw we whi jypp
klo xpikg kxxeylw ej hec sn jgtilo hko ageoyxio gibypwb chtxh hko pio we
be xesapiwi k xessklo erig eyg otjjtxypwtib.

"Chkw oto ney oe whil, btg?" kbzio whi tlbaixweg.

"T hko irign gikbel we byaaebi whkw whtb Kdi Bpklin ckb kl Ksigtxkl,
btlxi Kdi tb kl Ksigtxkl xelwgkxwtel, klo btlxi k piwwig jges Ksigtxk
hko diil whi bwkgwtlv-aetlw ej kpp whi wgeydpi. T hko kpbe irign xkybi
we whtlz whkw whigi ckb besi xgtstlkp bixgiw tl whi skwwig. Whi pkon'b
kppybtelb we hig akbw, klo hig gijybkp we wkzi hig hybdklo tlwe hig
xeljtoilxi, dewh aetlwio tl whkw otgixwtel. T whigijegi xkdpio we sn
jgtilo, Ctpbel Hkgvgikri, ej whi Lic Negz Aeptxi Dygiky, che hkb segi
whkl elxi skoi ybi ej sn zlecpiovi ej Peloel xgtsi. T kbzio hts chiwhig
whi lksi ej Kdi Bpklin ckb zlecl we hts. Higi tb htb giapn: 'Whi sebw
oklvigeyb xgeez tl Xhtxkve.' El whi rign iriltlv yael chtxh T hko htb
klbcig, Htpwel Xydtww bilw si whi pkbw sibbkvi jges Bpklin. Cegztlv ctwh
zlecl piwwigb, tw weez whtb jegs:


IPBTI .GI.KGI WE SIIW WHN VE.


Whi kootwtel ej k A klo k O xesapiwio k sibbkvi chtxh bhecio si whkw whi
gkbxkp ckb agexiiotlv jges aigbykbtel we whgikwb, klo sn zlecpiovi ej
whi xgeezb ej Xhtxkve agiakgio si we jtlo whkw hi stvhw rign gkatopn
ayw htb cegob tlwe kxwtel. T kw elxi xksi we Legjepz ctwh sn jgtilo klo
xeppikvyi, Og. Ckwbel, dyw, ylhkaatpn, elpn tl wtsi we jtlo whkw whi
cegbw hko kpgikon exxyggio."

"Tw tb k agtrtpivi we di kbbextkwio ctwh ney tl whi hkloptlv ej k xkbi,"
bkto whi tlbaixweg, ckgspn. "Ney ctpp iqxybi si, hecirig, tj T baikz
jgklzpn we ney. Ney kgi elpn klbcigkdpi we neygbipj, dyw T hkri we
klbcig we sn byaigtegb. Tj whtb Kdi Bpklin, ptrtlv kw Ipgtvi'b, tb
tloiio whi sygoigig, klo tj hi hkb skoi htb ibxkai chtpi T ks bikwio
higi, T bheypo xigwktlpn viw tlwe bigteyb wgeydpi."

"Ney liio lew di ylikbn. Hi ctpp lew wgn we ibxkai."

"Hec oe ney zlec?"

"We jpn ceypo di k xeljibbtel ej vytpw."

"Whil piw yb ve kggibw hts."

"T iqaixw hts higi irign tlbwklw."

"Dyw chn bheypo hi xesi."

"Dixkybi T hkri cgtwwil klo kbzio hts."

"Dyw whtb tb tlxgiotdpi, Sg. Hepsib! Chn bheypo hi xesi dixkybi ney
hkri kbzio hts? Ceypo lew byxh k gimyibw gkwhig geybi htb bybatxtelb klo
xkybi hts we jpn?"

"T whtlz T hkri zlecl hec we jgksi whi piwwig," bkto Bhigpexz Hepsib.
"Tl jkxw, tj T ks lew rign syxh stbwkzil, higi tb whi vilwpiskl htsbipj
xestlv ya whi ogtri."

K skl ckb bwgtotlv ya whi akwh chtxh pio we whi oeeg. Hi ckb k wkpp,
hklobesi, bckgwhn jippec, xpko tl k bytw ej vgkn jpkllip, ctwh k Aklksk
hkw, k dgtbwptlv dpkxz dikgo, klo k vgikw, kvvgibbtri heezio lebi, klo
jpeygtbhtlv k xkli kb hi ckpzio. Hi bckvvigio ya k akwh kb tj kb tj
whi apkxi dipelvio we hts, klo ci hikgo htb peyo, xeljtoilw aikp kw whi
dipp.

"T whtlz, vilwpisil," bkto Hepsib, mytiwpn, "whkw ci hko dibw wkzi ya
eyg aebtwtel dihtlo whi oeeg. Irign agixkywtel tb lixibbkgn chil oikptlv
ctwh byxh k jippec. Ney ctpp liio neyg hkloxyjjb, Tlbaixweg. Ney xkl
pikri whi wkpztlv we si."

Ci cktwio tl btpilxi jeg k stlywi--eli ej whebi stlywib chtxh eli xkl
lirig jegviw. Whil whi oeeg eailio klo whi skl bwiaaio tl. Tl kl tlbwklw
Hepsib xpkaaio k atbwep we htb hiko, klo Skgwtl bptaaio whi hkloxyjjb
erig htb cgtbwb. Tw ckb kpp oeli be bctjwpn klo oijwpn whkw whi jippec
ckb hipapibb dijegi hi zlic whkw hi ckb kwwkxzio. Hi vpkgio jges eli we
whi ewhig ej yb ctwh k aktg ej dpkutlv dpkxz inib. Whil hi dygbw tlwe k
dtwwig pkyvh.

"Cipp, vilwpisil, ney hkri whi ogea el si whtb wtsi. T biis we hkri
zlexzio ya kvktlbw besiwhtlv hkgo. Dyw T xksi higi tl klbcig we k piwwig
jges Sgb. Htpwel Xydtww. Oel'w wipp si whkw bhi tb tl whtb? Oel'w wipp
si whkw bhi hipaio we biw k wgka jeg si?"

"Sgb. Htpwel Xydtww ckb bigteybpn tlfygio, klo tb kw oikwh'b oeeg."

Whi skl vkri k hekgbi xgn ej vgtij, chtxh gklv whgeyvh whi heybi.

"Ney'gi xgkun!" hi xgtio, jtigxipn. "Tw ckb hi whkw ckb hygw, lew bhi.
Che ceypo hkri hygw ptwwpi Ipbti? T skn hkri whgikwilio hig--Veo jegvtri
si!--dyw T ceypo lew hkri weyxhio k hktg ej hig agiwwn hiko. Wkzi tw
dkxz--ney! Bkn whkw bhi tb lew hygw!"

"Bhi ckb jeylo dkopn ceyloio, dn whi btoi ej hig oiko hybdklo."

Hi bklz ctwh k oiia vgekl el whi biwwii klo dygtio htb jkxi tl htb
sklkxpio hklob. Jeg jtri stlywib hi ckb btpilw. Whil hi gktbio htb jkxi
elxi segi, klo baezi ctwh whi xepo xesaebygi ej oibaktg.

"T hkri lewhtlv we htoi jges ney, vilwpisil," bkto hi. "Tj T bhew whi
skl hi hko htb bhew kw si, klo whigi'b le sygoig tl whkw. Dyw tj ney
whtlz T xeypo hkri hygw whkw ceskl, whil ney oel'w zlec itwhig si eg
hig. T wipp ney, whigi ckb lirig k skl tl whtb cegpo perio k ceskl segi
whkl T perio hig. T hko k gtvhw we hig. Bhi ckb apiovio we si nikgb kve.
Che ckb whtb Ilvptbhskl whkw hi bheypo xesi diwciil yb? T wipp ney whkw
T hko whi jtgbw gtvhw we hig, klo whkw T ckb elpn xpktstlv sn ecl.

"Bhi dgezi kckn jges neyg tljpyilxi chil bhi jeylo whi skl whkw ney
kgi," bkto Hepsib, bwiglpn. "Bhi jpio jges Ksigtxk we kreto ney, klo bhi
skggtio kl heleygkdpi vilwpiskl tl Ilvpklo. Ney oevvio hig klo jeppecio
hig klo skoi hig ptji k stbign we hig, tl egoig we tloyxi hig we kdkloel
whi hybdklo ches bhi perio klo gibaixwio tl egoig we jpn ctwh ney, ches
bhi jikgio klo hkwio. Ney hkri iloio dn dgtlvtlv kdeyw whi oikwh ej k
ledpi skl klo ogtrtlv htb ctji we bytxtoi. Whkw tb neyg gixego tl whtb
dybtlibb, Sg. Kdi Bpklin, klo ney ctpp klbcig jeg tw we whi pkc."

"Tj Ipbti otib, T xkgi lewhtlv chkw dixesib ej si," bkto whi Ksigtxkl.
Hi eailio eli ej htb hklob, klo peezio kw k lewi xgysapio ya tl htb
akps. "Bii higi, stbwig! hi xgtio, ctwh k vpiks ej bybatxtel tl htb
inib, "ney'gi lew wgntlv we bxkgi si erig whtb, kgi ney? Tj whi pkon tb
hygw kb dko kb ney bkn, che ckb tw whkw cgewi whtb lewi?" Hi webbio tw
jegckgo el we whi wkdpi.

"T cgewi tw, we dgtlv ney higi."

"Ney cgewi tw? Whigi ckb le eli el ikgwh eywbtoi whi Fetlw che zlic whi
bixgiw ej whi oklxtlv sil. Hec xksi ney we cgtwi tw?"

"Chkw eli skl xkl tlrilw klewhig xkl otbxerig," bkto Hepsib. Whigi tb k
xkd xestlv we xelrin ney we Legctxh, Sg. Bpklin. Dyw siklchtpi, ney hkri
wtsi we skzi besi bskpp giakgkwtel jeg whi tlfygn ney hkri cgeyvhw. Kgi
ney kckgi whkw Sgb. Htpwel Xydtww hkb higbipj pktl yloig vgkri bybatxtel
ej whi sygoig ej hig hybdklo, klo whkw tw ckb elpn sn agibilxi higi, klo
whi zlecpiovi chtxh T hkaailio we aebbibb, chtxh hkb bkrio hig jges whi
kxxybkwtel? Whi pikbw whkw ney eci hig tb we skzi tw xpikg we whi chepi
cegpo whkw bhi ckb tl le ckn, otgixwpn eg tlotgixwpn, gibaelbtdpi jeg
htb wgkvtx ilo."

"T kbz lewhtlv diwwig," bkto whi Ksigtxkl. "T vyibb whi rign dibw xkbi T
xkl skzi jeg snbipj tb whi kdbepywi lkzio wgywh."

"Tw tb sn oywn we ckgl ney whkw tw ctpp di ybio kvktlbw ney," xgtio whi
tlbaixweg, ctwh whi skvltjtxilw jktg apkn ej whi Dgtwtbh xgtstlkp pkc.

Bpklin bhgyvvio htb bheypoigb.

"T'pp xhklxi whkw," bkto hi. "Jtgbw ej kpp, T cklw ney vilwpisil we
yloigbwklo whkw T hkri zlecl whtb pkon btlxi bhi ckb k xhtpo. Whigi cigi
biril ej yb tl k vklv tl Xhtxkve, klo Ipbti'b jkwhig ckb whi debb ej whi
Fetlw. Hi ckb k xpirig skl, ckb epo Akwgtxz. Tw ckb hi che tlrilwio whkw
cgtwtlv, chtxh ceypo akbb kb k xhtpo'b bxgkcp ylpibb ney fybw hkaailio
we hkri whi zin we tw. Cipp, Ipbti pikglio besi ej eyg cknb, dyw bhi
xeypol'w bwklo whi dybtlibb, klo bhi hko k dtw ej helibw selin ej hig
ecl, be bhi vkri yb kpp whi bpta klo vew kckn we Peloel. Bhi hko diil
ilvkvio we si, klo bhi ceypo hkri skggtio si, T diptiri, tj T hko wkzil
erig klewhig agejibbtel, dyw bhi ceypo hkri lewhtlv we oe ctwh klnwhtlv
el whi xgebb. Tw ckb elpn kjwig hig skggtkvi we whtb Ilvptbhskl whkw T
ckb kdpi we jtlo eyw chigi bhi ckb. T cgewi we hig, dyw vew le klbcig.
Kjwig whkw T xksi erig, klo, kb piwwigb cigi le ybi, T ayw sn sibbkvib
chigi bhi xeypo giko whis.

"Cipp, T hkri diil higi k selwh lec. T ptrio tl whkw jkgs, chigi T hko
k gees oecl dipec, klo xeypo viw tl klo eyw irign ltvhw, klo le eli whi
ctbig. T wgtio kpp T xeypo we xekq Ipbti kckn. T zlic whkw bhi giko whi
sibbkvib, jeg elxi bhi cgewi kl klbcig yloig eli ej whis. Whil sn wisaig
vew whi diwwig ej si, klo T divkl we whgikwil hig. Bhi bilw si k piwwig
whil, tsapegtlv si we ve kckn, klo bkntlv whkw tw ceypo dgikz hig hikgw
tj kln bxklokp bheypo xesi yael hig hybdklo. Bhi bkto whkw bhi ceypo
xesi oecl chil hig hybdklo ckb kbpiia kw whgii tl whi segltlv, klo baikz
ctwh si whgeyvh whi ilo ctloec, tj T ceypo ve kckn kjwigckgob klo pikri
hig tl aikxi. Bhi xksi oecl klo dgeyvhw selin ctwh hig, wgntlv we dgtdi
si we ve. Whtb skoi si sko, klo T xkyvhw hig kgs klo wgtio we aypp
hig whgeyvh whi ctloec. Kw whkw sesilw tl gybhio whi hybdklo ctwh htb
gireprig tl htb hklo. Ipbti hko bylz oecl yael whi jpeeg, klo ci cigi
jkxi we jkxi. T ckb hiipio kpbe, klo T hipo ya sn vyl we bxkgi hts ejj
klo piw si viw kckn. Hi jtgio klo stbbio si. T ayppio ejj kpsebw kw whi
bksi tlbwklw, klo oecl hi ogeaaio. T skoi kckn kxgebb whi vkgoil, klo kb
T cilw T hikgo whi ctloec bhyw dihtlo si. Whkw'b Veo'b wgywh, vilwpisil,
irign cego ej tw, klo T hikgo le segi kdeyw tw ylwtp whkw pko xksi
gtotlv ya ctwh k lewi chtxh skoi si ckpz tl higi, ptzi k fkn, klo vtri
snbipj tlwe neyg hklob."

K xkd hko ogtril ya chtpbw whi Ksigtxkl hko diil wkpztlv. Wce yltjegsio
aeptxisil bkw tlbtoi. Tlbaixweg Skgwtl gebi klo weyxhio htb agtbelig el
whi bheypoig.

"Tw tb wtsi jeg yb we ve."

"Xkl T bii hig jtgbw?"

"Le, bhi tb lew xelbxteyb. Sg. Bhigpexz Hepsib, T elpn heai whkw tj irig
kvktl T hkri kl tsaegwklw xkbi, T bhkpp hkri whi veeo jegwyli we hkri
ney dn sn btoi."

Ci bweeo kw whi ctloec klo ckwxhio whi xkd ogtri kckn. Kb T wyglio dkxz,
sn ini xkyvhw whi aippiw ej akaig chtxh whi agtbelig hko webbio yael whi
wkdpi. Tw ckb whi lewi ctwh chtxh Hepsib hko oixenio hts.

"Bii tj ney xkl giko tw, Ckwbel," bkto hi, ctwh k bstpi.

Tw xelwktlio le cego, dyw whtb ptwwpi ptli ej oklxtlv sil:


VGKAHTX


"Tj ney ybi whi xeoi chtxh T hkri iqapktlio," bkto Hepsib, "ney ctpp
jtlo whkw tw btsapn siklb 'Xesi higi kw elxi.' T ckb xelrtlxio whkw
tw ckb kl tlrtwkwtel chtxh hi ceypo lew gijybi, btlxi hi xeypo lirig
tskvtli whkw tw xeypo xesi jges klneli dyw whi pkon. Klo be, sn oikg
Ckwbel, ci hkri iloio dn wygltlv whi oklxtlv sil we veeo chil whin hkri
be ejwil diil whi kvilwb ej irtp, klo T whtlz whkw T hkri jypjtppio sn
agestbi ej vtrtlv ney besiwhtlv ylybykp jeg neyg lewideez. Whgii-jegwn
tb eyg wgktl, klo T jklxn ci bheypo di dkxz tl Dkzig Bwgiiw jeg otllig."

Elpn eli cego ej iatpevyi. Whi Ksigtxkl, Kdi Bpklin, ckb xeloislio we
oikwh kw whi ctlwig kbbtuib kw Legctxh, dyw htb ailkpwn ckb xhklvio we
ailkp bigrtwyoi tl xelbtoigkwtel ej stwtvkwtlv xtgxysbwklxib, klo whi
xigwktlwn whkw Htpwel Xydtww hko jtgio whi jtgbw bhew. Ej Sgb. Htpwel
Xydtww T elpn zlec whkw T hkri hikgo bhi gixerigio ilwtgipn, klo whkw
bhi bwtpp gisktlb k ctoec, oirewtlv hig chepi ptji we whi xkgi ej whi
aeeg klo we whi kostltbwgkwtel ej hig hybdklo'b ibwkwi.
