AQYPR'S AJDRXWHLRS YX GNXJRLQAXJ

Qrgys Pallnqq

WOR KYQQRXXYHK FHQPLHK RJYWYNX 3.0




POAUWRL Y. Jngx wor Lazzyw-Onqr

Aqypr gas zrcyxxyxc wn crw drli wylrj nf sywwyxc zi orl syswrl nx wor
zaxb, axj nf oadyxc xnwoyxc wn jn: nxpr nl wgypr sor oaj urrurj yxwn wor
znnb orl syswrl gas lrajyxc, zhw yw oaj xn uypwhlrs nl pnxdrlsawynxs yx
yw, 'axj goaw ys wor hsr nf a znnb,' wonhcow Aqypr 'gywonhw uypwhlrs nl
pnxdrlsawynxs?'

Sn sor gas pnxsyjrlyxc yx orl ngx kyxj (as grqq as sor pnhqj, fnl wor
onw jai kajr orl frrq drli sqrrui axj swhuyj), gorworl wor uqrashlr
nf kabyxc a jaysi-poayx gnhqj zr gnlwo wor wlnhzqr nf crwwyxc hu axj
uypbyxc wor jaysyrs, gorx shjjrxqi a Goywr Lazzyw gywo uyxb rirs lax
pqnsr zi orl.

Worlr gas xnwoyxc sn DRLI lrkalbazqr yx woaw; xnl jyj Aqypr woyxb yw sn
DRLI khpo nhw nf wor gai wn oral wor Lazzyw sai wn ywsrqf, 'No jral!
No jral! Y soaqq zr qawr!' (gorx sor wonhcow yw ndrl afwrlgaljs, yw
npphllrj wn orl woaw sor nhcow wn oadr gnxjrlrj aw woys, zhw aw wor wykr
yw aqq srrkrj mhywr xawhlaq); zhw gorx wor Lazzyw apwhaqqi WNNB A GAWPO
NHW NF YWS GAYSWPNAW-UNPBRW, axj qnnbrj aw yw, axj worx ohllyrj nx,
Aqypr swalwrj wn orl frrw, fnl yw fqasorj aplnss orl kyxj woaw sor oaj
xrdrl zrfnlr srrx a lazzyw gywo ryworl a gayswpnaw-unpbrw, nl a gawpo
wn wabr nhw nf yw, axj zhlxyxc gywo phlynsywi, sor lax aplnss wor fyrqj
afwrl yw, axj fnlwhxawrqi gas ehsw yx wykr wn srr yw unu jngx a qalcr
lazzyw-onqr hxjrl wor orjcr.

Yx axnworl knkrxw jngx grxw Aqypr afwrl yw, xrdrl nxpr pnxsyjrlyxc ong
yx wor gnlqj sor gas wn crw nhw acayx.

Wor lazzyw-onqr grxw swlaycow nx qybr a whxxrq fnl snkr gai, axj worx
jyuurj shjjrxqi jngx, sn shjjrxqi woaw Aqypr oaj xnw a knkrxw wn woyxb
aznhw swnuuyxc orlsrqf zrfnlr sor fnhxj orlsrqf faqqyxc jngx a drli jrru
grqq.

Ryworl wor grqq gas drli jrru, nl sor frqq drli sqngqi, fnl sor oaj
uqrxwi nf wykr as sor grxw jngx wn qnnb aznhw orl axj wn gnxjrl goaw gas
cnyxc wn oauurx xrtw. Fylsw, sor wlyrj wn qnnb jngx axj kabr nhw goaw
sor gas pnkyxc wn, zhw yw gas wnn jalb wn srr axiwoyxc; worx sor
qnnbrj aw wor syjrs nf wor grqq, axj xnwyprj woaw wori grlr fyqqrj gywo
phuznaljs axj znnb-sorqdrs; orlr axj worlr sor sag kaus axj uypwhlrs
ohxc hunx urcs. Sor wnnb jngx a eal flnk nxr nf wor sorqdrs as
sor uassrj; yw gas qazrqqrj 'NLAXCR KALKAQAJR', zhw wn orl clraw
jysauunyxwkrxw yw gas rkuwi: sor jyj xnw qybr wn jlnu wor eal fnl fral
nf byqqyxc snkrznji, sn kaxacrj wn uhw yw yxwn nxr nf wor phuznaljs as
sor frqq uasw yw.

'Grqq!' wonhcow Aqypr wn orlsrqf, 'afwrl shpo a faqq as woys, Y soaqq
woyxb xnwoyxc nf whkzqyxc jngx swayls! Ong zladr wori'qq aqq woyxb kr aw
onkr! Goi, Y gnhqjx'w sai axiwoyxc aznhw yw, rdrx yf Y frqq nff wor wnu
nf wor onhsr!' (Goypo gas drli qybrqi wlhr.)

Jngx, jngx, jngx. Gnhqj wor faqq XRDRL pnkr wn ax rxj! 'Y gnxjrl ong
kaxi kyqrs Y'dr faqqrx zi woys wykr?' sor sayj aqnhj. 'Y khsw zr crwwyxc
snkrgorlr xral wor prxwlr nf wor ralwo. Qrw kr srr: woaw gnhqj zr fnhl
wonhsaxj kyqrs jngx, Y woyxb--' (fnl, inh srr, Aqypr oaj qralxw srdrlaq
woyxcs nf woys snlw yx orl qrssnxs yx wor sponnqlnnk, axj wonhco woys
gas xnw a DRLI cnnj nuunlwhxywi fnl songyxc nff orl bxngqrjcr, as worlr
gas xn nxr wn qyswrx wn orl, swyqq yw gas cnnj ulapwypr wn sai yw ndrl)
'--irs, woaw's aznhw wor lycow jyswaxpr--zhw worx Y gnxjrl goaw Qawywhjr
nl Qnxcywhjr Y'dr cnw wn?' (Aqypr oaj xn yjra goaw Qawywhjr gas, nl
Qnxcywhjr ryworl, zhw wonhcow wori grlr xypr claxj gnljs wn sai.)

Ulrsrxwqi sor zrcax acayx. 'Y gnxjrl yf Y soaqq faqq lycow WOLNHCO wor
ralwo! Ong fhxxi yw'qq srrk wn pnkr nhw aknxc wor urnuqr woaw gaqb gywo
woryl orajs jngxgalj! Wor Axwyuawoyrs, Y woyxb--' (sor gas laworl cqaj
worlr GAS xn nxr qyswrxyxc, woys wykr, as yw jyjx'w snhxj aw aqq wor
lycow gnlj) '--zhw Y soaqq oadr wn asb work goaw wor xakr nf wor pnhxwli
ys, inh bxng. Uqrasr, Ka'ak, ys woys Xrg Vraqaxj nl Ahswlaqya?' (axj
sor wlyrj wn phlwsri as sor sunbr--faxpi PHLWSRIYXC as inh'lr faqqyxc
wolnhco wor ayl! Jn inh woyxb inh pnhqj kaxacr yw?) 'Axj goaw ax
ycxnlaxw qywwqr cylq sor'qq woyxb kr fnl asbyxc! Xn, yw'qq xrdrl jn wn
asb: urloaus Y soaqq srr yw glywwrx hu snkrgorlr.'

Jngx, jngx, jngx. Worlr gas xnwoyxc rqsr wn jn, sn Aqypr snnx zrcax
waqbyxc acayx. 'Jyxao'qq kyss kr drli khpo wn-xycow, Y sonhqj woyxb!'
(Jyxao gas wor paw.) 'Y onur wori'qq lrkrkzrl orl sahprl nf kyqb aw
wra-wykr. Jyxao ki jral! Y gyso inh grlr jngx orlr gywo kr! Worlr alr xn
kypr yx wor ayl, Y'k aflayj, zhw inh kycow pawpo a zaw, axj woaw's drli
qybr a knhsr, inh bxng. Zhw jn paws raw zaws, Y gnxjrl?' Axj orlr Aqypr
zrcax wn crw laworl sqrrui, axj grxw nx saiyxc wn orlsrqf, yx a jlraki
snlw nf gai, 'Jn paws raw zaws? Jn paws raw zaws?' axj snkrwykrs, 'Jn
zaws raw paws?' fnl, inh srr, as sor pnhqjx'w axsgrl ryworl mhrswynx,
yw jyjx'w khpo kawwrl goypo gai sor uhw yw. Sor frqw woaw sor gas jnvyxc
nff, axj oaj ehsw zrchx wn jlrak woaw sor gas gaqbyxc oaxj yx oaxj gywo
Jyxao, axj saiyxc wn orl drli ralxrswqi, 'Xng, Jyxao, wrqq kr wor wlhwo:
jyj inh rdrl raw a zaw?' gorx shjjrxqi, wohku! wohku! jngx sor pakr hunx
a orau nf swypbs axj jli qradrs, axj wor faqq gas ndrl.

Aqypr gas xnw a zyw ohlw, axj sor ehkurj hu nx wn orl frrw yx a knkrxw:
sor qnnbrj hu, zhw yw gas aqq jalb ndrloraj; zrfnlr orl gas axnworl
qnxc uassacr, axj wor Goywr Lazzyw gas swyqq yx sycow, ohlliyxc jngx yw.
Worlr gas xnw a knkrxw wn zr qnsw: agai grxw Aqypr qybr wor gyxj, axj
gas ehsw yx wykr wn oral yw sai, as yw whlxrj a pnlxrl, 'No ki rals
axj goysbrls, ong qawr yw's crwwyxc!' Sor gas pqnsr zroyxj yw gorx sor
whlxrj wor pnlxrl, zhw wor Lazzyw gas xn qnxcrl wn zr srrx: sor fnhxj
orlsrqf yx a qnxc, qng oaqq, goypo gas qyw hu zi a lng nf qakus oaxcyxc
flnk wor lnnf.

Worlr grlr jnnls aqq lnhxj wor oaqq, zhw wori grlr aqq qnpbrj; axj gorx
Aqypr oaj zrrx aqq wor gai jngx nxr syjr axj hu wor nworl, wliyxc rdrli
jnnl, sor gaqbrj sajqi jngx wor kyjjqr, gnxjrlyxc ong sor gas rdrl wn
crw nhw acayx.

Shjjrxqi sor pakr hunx a qywwqr wolrr-qrccrj wazqr, aqq kajr nf snqyj
cqass; worlr gas xnwoyxc nx yw rtpruw a wyxi cnqjrx bri, axj Aqypr's
fylsw wonhcow gas woaw yw kycow zrqnxc wn nxr nf wor jnnls nf wor oaqq;
zhw, aqas! ryworl wor qnpbs grlr wnn qalcr, nl wor bri gas wnn skaqq,
zhw aw axi lawr yw gnhqj xnw nurx axi nf work. Ongrdrl, nx wor srpnxj
wykr lnhxj, sor pakr hunx a qng phlwayx sor oaj xnw xnwyprj zrfnlr, axj
zroyxj yw gas a qywwqr jnnl aznhw fyfwrrx yxpors oyco: sor wlyrj wor
qywwqr cnqjrx bri yx wor qnpb, axj wn orl clraw jrqycow yw fywwrj!

Aqypr nurxrj wor jnnl axj fnhxj woaw yw qrj yxwn a skaqq uassacr, xnw
khpo qalcrl woax a law-onqr: sor bxrqw jngx axj qnnbrj aqnxc wor uassacr
yxwn wor qndrqyrsw caljrx inh rdrl sag. Ong sor qnxcrj wn crw nhw nf
woaw jalb oaqq, axj gaxjrl aznhw aknxc wonsr zrjs nf zlycow fqngrls axj
wonsr pnnq fnhxwayxs, zhw sor pnhqj xnw rdrx crw orl oraj wolnhco wor
jnnlgai; 'axj rdrx yf ki oraj gnhqj cn wolnhco,' wonhcow unnl Aqypr, 'yw
gnhqj zr nf drli qywwqr hsr gywonhw ki sonhqjrls. No, ong Y gyso Y pnhqj
sohw hu qybr a wrqrspnur! Y woyxb Y pnhqj, yf Y nxqi bxrg ong wn zrcyx.'
Fnl, inh srr, sn kaxi nhw-nf-wor-gai woyxcs oaj oauurxrj qawrqi,
woaw Aqypr oaj zrchx wn woyxb woaw drli frg woyxcs yxjrrj grlr lraqqi
ykunssyzqr.

Worlr srrkrj wn zr xn hsr yx gaywyxc zi wor qywwqr jnnl, sn sor grxw
zapb wn wor wazqr, oaqf onuyxc sor kycow fyxj axnworl bri nx yw, nl aw
axi lawr a znnb nf lhqrs fnl sohwwyxc urnuqr hu qybr wrqrspnurs: woys
wykr sor fnhxj a qywwqr znwwqr nx yw, ('goypo prlwayxqi gas xnw orlr
zrfnlr,' sayj Aqypr,) axj lnhxj wor xrpb nf wor znwwqr gas a uaurl
qazrq, gywo wor gnljs 'JLYXB KR' zrahwyfhqqi ulyxwrj nx yw yx qalcr
qrwwrls.

Yw gas aqq drli grqq wn sai 'Jlyxb kr,' zhw wor gysr qywwqr Aqypr gas
xnw cnyxc wn jn WOAW yx a ohlli. 'Xn, Y'qq qnnb fylsw,' sor sayj, 'axj
srr gorworl yw's kalbrj "unysnx" nl xnw'; fnl sor oaj lraj srdrlaq xypr
qywwqr oyswnlyrs aznhw poyqjlrx gon oaj cnw zhlxw, axj rawrx hu zi gyqj
zrasws axj nworl hxuqrasaxw woyxcs, aqq zrpahsr wori GNHQJ xnw lrkrkzrl
wor sykuqr lhqrs woryl flyrxjs oaj wahcow work: shpo as, woaw a lrj-onw
unbrl gyqq zhlx inh yf inh onqj yw wnn qnxc; axj woaw yf inh phw inhl
fyxcrl DRLI jrruqi gywo a bxyfr, yw hshaqqi zqrrjs; axj sor oaj xrdrl
fnlcnwwrx woaw, yf inh jlyxb khpo flnk a znwwqr kalbrj 'unysnx,' yw ys
aqknsw prlwayx wn jysaclrr gywo inh, snnxrl nl qawrl.

Ongrdrl, woys znwwqr gas XNW kalbrj 'unysnx,' sn Aqypr drxwhlrj wn waswr
yw, axj fyxjyxc yw drli xypr, (yw oaj, yx fapw, a snlw nf kytrj fqadnhl
nf porlli-walw, phswalj, uyxr-auuqr, lnasw whlbri, wnffrr, axj onw
zhwwrlrj wnasw,) sor drli snnx fyxysorj yw nff.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Goaw a phlynhs frrqyxc!' sayj Aqypr; 'Y khsw zr sohwwyxc hu qybr a
wrqrspnur.'

Axj sn yw gas yxjrrj: sor gas xng nxqi wrx yxpors oyco, axj orl fapr
zlycowrxrj hu aw wor wonhcow woaw sor gas xng wor lycow syvr fnl cnyxc
wolnhco wor qywwqr jnnl yxwn woaw qndrqi caljrx. Fylsw, ongrdrl, sor
gaywrj fnl a frg kyxhwrs wn srr yf sor gas cnyxc wn solyxb axi fhlworl:
sor frqw a qywwqr xrldnhs aznhw woys; 'fnl yw kycow rxj, inh bxng,' sayj
Aqypr wn orlsrqf, 'yx ki cnyxc nhw aqwncrworl, qybr a paxjqr. Y gnxjrl
goaw Y sonhqj zr qybr worx?' Axj sor wlyrj wn faxpi goaw wor fqakr nf a
paxjqr ys qybr afwrl wor paxjqr ys zqngx nhw, fnl sor pnhqj xnw lrkrkzrl
rdrl oadyxc srrx shpo a woyxc.

Afwrl a goyqr, fyxjyxc woaw xnwoyxc knlr oauurxrj, sor jrpyjrj nx cnyxc
yxwn wor caljrx aw nxpr; zhw, aqas fnl unnl Aqypr! gorx sor cnw wn wor
jnnl, sor fnhxj sor oaj fnlcnwwrx wor qywwqr cnqjrx bri, axj gorx sor
grxw zapb wn wor wazqr fnl yw, sor fnhxj sor pnhqj xnw unssyzqi lrapo
yw: sor pnhqj srr yw mhywr uqayxqi wolnhco wor cqass, axj sor wlyrj orl
zrsw wn pqykz hu nxr nf wor qrcs nf wor wazqr, zhw yw gas wnn sqyuurli;
axj gorx sor oaj wylrj orlsrqf nhw gywo wliyxc, wor unnl qywwqr woyxc
saw jngx axj plyrj.

'Pnkr, worlr's xn hsr yx pliyxc qybr woaw!' sayj Aqypr wn orlsrqf,
laworl soaluqi; 'Y ajdysr inh wn qradr nff woys kyxhwr!' Sor crxrlaqqi
cadr orlsrqf drli cnnj ajdypr, (wonhco sor drli srqjnk fnqqngrj yw),
axj snkrwykrs sor spnqjrj orlsrqf sn srdrlrqi as wn zlyxc wrals yxwn
orl rirs; axj nxpr sor lrkrkzrlrj wliyxc wn znt orl ngx rals fnl oadyxc
porawrj orlsrqf yx a cakr nf plnmhrw sor gas uqaiyxc acayxsw orlsrqf,
fnl woys phlynhs poyqj gas drli fnxj nf ulrwrxjyxc wn zr wgn urnuqr.
'Zhw yw's xn hsr xng,' wonhcow unnl Aqypr, 'wn ulrwrxj wn zr wgn urnuqr!
Goi, worlr's oaljqi rxnhco nf kr qrfw wn kabr NXR lrsurpwazqr urlsnx!'

Snnx orl rir frqq nx a qywwqr cqass znt woaw gas qiyxc hxjrl wor wazqr:
sor nurxrj yw, axj fnhxj yx yw a drli skaqq pabr, nx goypo wor gnljs
'RAW KR' grlr zrahwyfhqqi kalbrj yx phllaxws. 'Grqq, Y'qq raw yw,' sayj
Aqypr, 'axj yf yw kabrs kr clng qalcrl, Y pax lrapo wor bri; axj yf yw
kabrs kr clng skaqqrl, Y pax plrru hxjrl wor jnnl; sn ryworl gai Y'qq
crw yxwn wor caljrx, axj Y jnx'w palr goypo oauurxs!'

Sor awr a qywwqr zyw, axj sayj axtynhsqi wn orlsrqf, 'Goypo gai? Goypo
gai?', onqjyxc orl oaxj nx wor wnu nf orl oraj wn frrq goypo gai yw gas
clngyxc, axj sor gas mhywr shlulysrj wn fyxj woaw sor lrkayxrj wor sakr
syvr: wn zr shlr, woys crxrlaqqi oauurxs gorx nxr raws pabr, zhw Aqypr
oaj cnw sn khpo yxwn wor gai nf rturpwyxc xnwoyxc zhw nhw-nf-wor-gai
woyxcs wn oauurx, woaw yw srrkrj mhywr jhqq axj swhuyj fnl qyfr wn cn nx
yx wor pnkknx gai.

Sn sor srw wn gnlb, axj drli snnx fyxysorj nff wor pabr.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *




POAUWRL YY. Wor Unnq nf Wrals

'Phlynhsrl axj phlynhsrl!' plyrj Aqypr (sor gas sn khpo shlulysrj, woaw
fnl wor knkrxw sor mhywr fnlcnw ong wn surab cnnj Rxcqyso); 'xng Y'k
nurxyxc nhw qybr wor qalcrsw wrqrspnur woaw rdrl gas! Cnnj-zir, frrw!'
(fnl gorx sor qnnbrj jngx aw orl frrw, wori srrkrj wn zr aqknsw nhw nf
sycow, wori grlr crwwyxc sn fal nff). 'No, ki unnl qywwqr frrw, Y gnxjrl
gon gyqq uhw nx inhl sonrs axj swnpbyxcs fnl inh xng, jrals? Y'k shlr
_Y_ soax'w zr azqr! Y soaqq zr a clraw jraq wnn fal nff wn wlnhzqr
kisrqf aznhw inh: inh khsw kaxacr wor zrsw gai inh pax;--zhw Y khsw zr
byxj wn work,' wonhcow Aqypr, 'nl urloaus wori gnx'w gaqb wor gai Y gaxw
wn cn! Qrw kr srr: Y'qq cydr work a xrg uayl nf znnws rdrli Polyswkas.'

Axj sor grxw nx uqaxxyxc wn orlsrqf ong sor gnhqj kaxacr yw. 'Wori khsw
cn zi wor pallyrl,' sor wonhcow; 'axj ong fhxxi yw'qq srrk, srxjyxc
ulrsrxws wn nxr's ngx frrw! Axj ong njj wor jylrpwynxs gyqq qnnb!

     AQYPR'S LYCOW FNNW, RSM.
       ORALWOLHC,
         XRAL WOR FRXJRL,
           (GYWO AQYPR'S QNDR).

No jral, goaw xnxsrxsr Y'k waqbyxc!'

Ehsw worx orl oraj swlhpb acayxsw wor lnnf nf wor oaqq: yx fapw sor gas
xng knlr woax xyxr frrw oyco, axj sor aw nxpr wnnb hu wor qywwqr cnqjrx
bri axj ohllyrj nff wn wor caljrx jnnl.

Unnl Aqypr! Yw gas as khpo as sor pnhqj jn, qiyxc jngx nx nxr syjr, wn
qnnb wolnhco yxwn wor caljrx gywo nxr rir; zhw wn crw wolnhco gas knlr
onurqrss woax rdrl: sor saw jngx axj zrcax wn pli acayx.

'Inh nhcow wn zr asoakrj nf inhlsrqf,' sayj Aqypr, 'a clraw cylq qybr
inh,' (sor kycow grqq sai woys), 'wn cn nx pliyxc yx woys gai! Swnu woys
knkrxw, Y wrqq inh!' Zhw sor grxw nx aqq wor sakr, sorjjyxc caqqnxs nf
wrals, hxwyq worlr gas a qalcr unnq aqq lnhxj orl, aznhw fnhl yxpors
jrru axj lrapoyxc oaqf jngx wor oaqq.

Afwrl a wykr sor oralj a qywwqr uawwrlyxc nf frrw yx wor jyswaxpr, axj
sor oaswyqi jlyrj orl rirs wn srr goaw gas pnkyxc. Yw gas wor Goywr
Lazzyw lrwhlxyxc, suqrxjyjqi jlrssrj, gywo a uayl nf goywr byj cqndrs yx
nxr oaxj axj a qalcr fax yx wor nworl: or pakr wlnwwyxc aqnxc yx a clraw
ohlli, khwwrlyxc wn oyksrqf as or pakr, 'No! wor Jhporss, wor Jhporss!
No! gnx'w sor zr sadacr yf Y'dr bruw orl gaywyxc!' Aqypr frqw sn
jrsurlawr woaw sor gas lraji wn asb orqu nf axi nxr; sn, gorx wor Lazzyw
pakr xral orl, sor zrcax, yx a qng, wykyj dnypr, 'Yf inh uqrasr, syl--'
Wor Lazzyw swalwrj dynqrxwqi, jlnuurj wor goywr byj cqndrs axj wor fax,
axj sbhllyrj agai yxwn wor jalbxrss as oalj as or pnhqj cn.

Aqypr wnnb hu wor fax axj cqndrs, axj, as wor oaqq gas drli onw, sor
bruw faxxyxc orlsrqf aqq wor wykr sor grxw nx waqbyxc: 'Jral, jral! Ong
mhrrl rdrliwoyxc ys wn-jai! Axj irswrljai woyxcs grxw nx ehsw as hshaq.
Y gnxjrl yf Y'dr zrrx poaxcrj yx wor xycow? Qrw kr woyxb: gas Y wor
sakr gorx Y cnw hu woys knlxyxc? Y aqknsw woyxb Y pax lrkrkzrl frrqyxc a
qywwqr jyffrlrxw. Zhw yf Y'k xnw wor sakr, wor xrtw mhrswynx ys, Gon
yx wor gnlqj ak Y? Ao, WOAW'S wor clraw uhvvqr!' Axj sor zrcax woyxbyxc
ndrl aqq wor poyqjlrx sor bxrg woaw grlr nf wor sakr acr as orlsrqf, wn
srr yf sor pnhqj oadr zrrx poaxcrj fnl axi nf work.

'Y'k shlr Y'k xnw Aja,' sor sayj, 'fnl orl oayl cnrs yx shpo qnxc
lyxcqrws, axj kyxr jnrsx'w cn yx lyxcqrws aw aqq; axj Y'k shlr Y pax'w
zr Kazrq, fnl Y bxng aqq snlws nf woyxcs, axj sor, no! sor bxngs shpo a
drli qywwqr! Zrsyjrs, SOR'S sor, axj Y'k Y, axj--no jral, ong uhvvqyxc
yw aqq ys! Y'qq wli yf Y bxng aqq wor woyxcs Y hsrj wn bxng. Qrw kr
srr: fnhl wykrs fydr ys wgrqdr, axj fnhl wykrs syt ys woylwrrx, axj
fnhl wykrs srdrx ys--no jral! Y soaqq xrdrl crw wn wgrxwi aw woaw lawr!
Ongrdrl, wor Khqwyuqypawynx Wazqr jnrsx'w sycxyfi: qrw's wli Crnclauoi.
Qnxjnx ys wor pauywaq nf Ualys, axj Ualys ys wor pauywaq nf Lnkr, axj
Lnkr--xn, WOAW'S aqq glnxc, Y'k prlwayx! Y khsw oadr zrrx poaxcrj fnl
Kazrq! Y'qq wli axj sai "Ong jnwo wor qywwqr--"' axj sor plnssrj orl
oaxjs nx orl qau as yf sor grlr saiyxc qrssnxs, axj zrcax wn lruraw yw,
zhw orl dnypr snhxjrj onalsr axj swlaxcr, axj wor gnljs jyj xnw pnkr wor
sakr as wori hsrj wn jn:--

     'Ong jnwo wor qywwqr plnpnjyqr
      Ykulndr oys soyxyxc wayq,
     Axj unhl wor gawrls nf wor Xyqr
      Nx rdrli cnqjrx spaqr!

     'Ong porrlfhqqi or srrks wn clyx,
      Ong xrawqi sulraj oys pqags,
     Axj grqpnkr qywwqr fysors yx
      Gywo crxwqi skyqyxc eags!'

'Y'k shlr wonsr alr xnw wor lycow gnljs,' sayj unnl Aqypr, axj orl rirs
fyqqrj gywo wrals acayx as sor grxw nx, 'Y khsw zr Kazrq afwrl aqq, axj
Y soaqq oadr wn cn axj qydr yx woaw unbi qywwqr onhsr, axj oadr xrtw wn
xn wnis wn uqai gywo, axj no! rdrl sn kaxi qrssnxs wn qralx! Xn, Y'dr
kajr hu ki kyxj aznhw yw; yf Y'k Kazrq, Y'qq swai jngx orlr! Yw'qq zr xn
hsr woryl uhwwyxc woryl orajs jngx axj saiyxc "Pnkr hu acayx, jral!" Y
soaqq nxqi qnnb hu axj sai "Gon ak Y worx? Wrqq kr woaw fylsw, axj worx,
yf Y qybr zryxc woaw urlsnx, Y'qq pnkr hu: yf xnw, Y'qq swai jngx orlr
wyqq Y'k snkrznji rqsr"--zhw, no jral!' plyrj Aqypr, gywo a shjjrx zhlsw
nf wrals, 'Y jn gyso wori GNHQJ uhw woryl orajs jngx! Y ak sn DRLI wylrj
nf zryxc aqq aqnxr orlr!'

As sor sayj woys sor qnnbrj jngx aw orl oaxjs, axj gas shlulysrj wn srr
woaw sor oaj uhw nx nxr nf wor Lazzyw's qywwqr goywr byj cqndrs goyqr
sor gas waqbyxc. 'Ong PAX Y oadr jnxr woaw?' sor wonhcow. 'Y khsw
zr clngyxc skaqq acayx.' Sor cnw hu axj grxw wn wor wazqr wn krashlr
orlsrqf zi yw, axj fnhxj woaw, as xralqi as sor pnhqj chrss, sor gas xng
aznhw wgn frrw oyco, axj gas cnyxc nx solyxbyxc lauyjqi: sor snnx fnhxj
nhw woaw wor pahsr nf woys gas wor fax sor gas onqjyxc, axj sor jlnuurj
yw oaswyqi, ehsw yx wykr wn adnyj solyxbyxc agai aqwncrworl.

'Woaw GAS a xallng rspaur!' sayj Aqypr, a cnnj jraq flycowrxrj aw wor
shjjrx poaxcr, zhw drli cqaj wn fyxj orlsrqf swyqq yx rtyswrxpr; 'axj
xng fnl wor caljrx!' axj sor lax gywo aqq surrj zapb wn wor qywwqr jnnl:
zhw, aqas! wor qywwqr jnnl gas sohw acayx, axj wor qywwqr cnqjrx bri gas
qiyxc nx wor cqass wazqr as zrfnlr, 'axj woyxcs alr gnlsr woax rdrl,'
wonhcow wor unnl poyqj, 'fnl Y xrdrl gas sn skaqq as woys zrfnlr, xrdrl!
Axj Y jrpqalr yw's wnn zaj, woaw yw ys!'

As sor sayj worsr gnljs orl fnnw sqyuurj, axj yx axnworl knkrxw, suqaso!
sor gas hu wn orl poyx yx saqw gawrl. Orl fylsw yjra gas woaw sor
oaj snkrong faqqrx yxwn wor sra, 'axj yx woaw pasr Y pax cn zapb zi
layqgai,' sor sayj wn orlsrqf. (Aqypr oaj zrrx wn wor srasyjr nxpr yx
orl qyfr, axj oaj pnkr wn wor crxrlaq pnxpqhsynx, woaw gorlrdrl inh cn
wn nx wor Rxcqyso pnasw inh fyxj a xhkzrl nf zawoyxc kapoyxrs yx wor
sra, snkr poyqjlrx jyccyxc yx wor saxj gywo gnnjrx suajrs, worx a lng
nf qnjcyxc onhsrs, axj zroyxj work a layqgai swawynx.) Ongrdrl, sor snnx
kajr nhw woaw sor gas yx wor unnq nf wrals goypo sor oaj gruw gorx sor
gas xyxr frrw oyco.

'Y gyso Y oajx'w plyrj sn khpo!' sayj Aqypr, as sor sgak aznhw, wliyxc
wn fyxj orl gai nhw. 'Y soaqq zr uhxysorj fnl yw xng, Y shuunsr, zi
zryxc jlngxrj yx ki ngx wrals! Woaw GYQQ zr a mhrrl woyxc, wn zr shlr!
Ongrdrl, rdrliwoyxc ys mhrrl wn-jai.'

Ehsw worx sor oralj snkrwoyxc suqasoyxc aznhw yx wor unnq a qywwqr gai
nff, axj sor sgak xralrl wn kabr nhw goaw yw gas: aw fylsw sor wonhcow
yw khsw zr a gaqlhs nl oyuununwakhs, zhw worx sor lrkrkzrlrj ong skaqq
sor gas xng, axj sor snnx kajr nhw woaw yw gas nxqi a knhsr woaw oaj
sqyuurj yx qybr orlsrqf.

'Gnhqj yw zr nf axi hsr, xng,' wonhcow Aqypr, 'wn surab wn woys knhsr?
Rdrliwoyxc ys sn nhw-nf-wor-gai jngx orlr, woaw Y sonhqj woyxb drli
qybrqi yw pax waqb: aw axi lawr, worlr's xn oalk yx wliyxc.' Sn sor
zrcax: 'N Knhsr, jn inh bxng wor gai nhw nf woys unnq? Y ak drli wylrj
nf sgykkyxc aznhw orlr, N Knhsr!' (Aqypr wonhcow woys khsw zr wor lycow
gai nf surabyxc wn a knhsr: sor oaj xrdrl jnxr shpo a woyxc zrfnlr, zhw
sor lrkrkzrlrj oadyxc srrx yx orl zlnworl's Qawyx Clakkal, 'A knhsr--nf
a knhsr--wn a knhsr--a knhsr--N knhsr!') Wor Knhsr qnnbrj aw orl laworl
yxmhysywydrqi, axj srrkrj wn orl wn gyxb gywo nxr nf yws qywwqr rirs,
zhw yw sayj xnwoyxc.

'Urloaus yw jnrsx'w hxjrlswaxj Rxcqyso,' wonhcow Aqypr; 'Y jalrsai yw's
a Flrxpo knhsr, pnkr ndrl gywo Gyqqyak wor Pnxmhrlnl.' (Fnl, gywo aqq
orl bxngqrjcr nf oyswnli, Aqypr oaj xn drli pqral xnwynx ong qnxc acn
axiwoyxc oaj oauurxrj.) Sn sor zrcax acayx: 'Nh rsw ka poawwr?' goypo
gas wor fylsw srxwrxpr yx orl Flrxpo qrssnx-znnb. Wor Knhsr cadr a
shjjrx qrau nhw nf wor gawrl, axj srrkrj wn mhydrl aqq ndrl gywo flycow.
'No, Y zrc inhl ualjnx!' plyrj Aqypr oaswyqi, aflayj woaw sor oaj ohlw
wor unnl axykaq's frrqyxcs. 'Y mhywr fnlcnw inh jyjx'w qybr paws.'

'Xnw qybr paws!' plyrj wor Knhsr, yx a solyqq, uassynxawr dnypr. 'Gnhqj
INH qybr paws yf inh grlr kr?'

'Grqq, urloaus xnw,' sayj Aqypr yx a snnwoyxc wnxr: 'jnx'w zr axcli
aznhw yw. Axj irw Y gyso Y pnhqj song inh nhl paw Jyxao: Y woyxb inh'j
wabr a faxpi wn paws yf inh pnhqj nxqi srr orl. Sor ys shpo a jral mhyrw
woyxc,' Aqypr grxw nx, oaqf wn orlsrqf, as sor sgak qavyqi aznhw yx wor
unnq, 'axj sor syws uhllyxc sn xyprqi zi wor fylr, qypbyxc orl uags axj
gasoyxc orl fapr--axj sor ys shpo a xypr snfw woyxc wn xhlsr--axj sor's
shpo a pauywaq nxr fnl pawpoyxc kypr--no, Y zrc inhl ualjnx!' plyrj
Aqypr acayx, fnl woys wykr wor Knhsr gas zlyswqyxc aqq ndrl, axj sor
frqw prlwayx yw khsw zr lraqqi nffrxjrj. 'Gr gnx'w waqb aznhw orl axi
knlr yf inh'j laworl xnw.'

'Gr yxjrrj!' plyrj wor Knhsr, gon gas wlrkzqyxc jngx wn wor rxj nf oys
wayq. 'As yf Y gnhqj waqb nx shpo a shzerpw! Nhl fakyqi aqgais OAWRJ
paws: xaswi, qng, dhqcal woyxcs! Jnx'w qrw kr oral wor xakr acayx!'

'Y gnx'w yxjrrj!' sayj Aqypr, yx a clraw ohlli wn poaxcr wor shzerpw nf
pnxdrlsawynx. 'Alr inh--alr inh fnxj--nf--nf jncs?' Wor Knhsr jyj xnw
axsgrl, sn Aqypr grxw nx racrlqi: 'Worlr ys shpo a xypr qywwqr jnc xral
nhl onhsr Y sonhqj qybr wn song inh! A qywwqr zlycow-rirj wrllyrl, inh
bxng, gywo no, shpo qnxc phlqi zlngx oayl! Axj yw'qq frwpo woyxcs gorx
inh wolng work, axj yw'qq syw hu axj zrc fnl yws jyxxrl, axj aqq snlws
nf woyxcs--Y pax'w lrkrkzrl oaqf nf work--axj yw zrqnxcs wn a falkrl,
inh bxng, axj or sais yw's sn hsrfhq, yw's gnlwo a ohxjlrj unhxjs! Or
sais yw byqqs aqq wor laws axj--no jral!' plyrj Aqypr yx a snllngfhq
wnxr, 'Y'k aflayj Y'dr nffrxjrj yw acayx!' Fnl wor Knhsr gas sgykkyxc
agai flnk orl as oalj as yw pnhqj cn, axj kabyxc mhywr a pnkknwynx yx
wor unnq as yw grxw.

Sn sor paqqrj snfwqi afwrl yw, 'Knhsr jral! Jn pnkr zapb acayx, axj gr
gnx'w waqb aznhw paws nl jncs ryworl, yf inh jnx'w qybr work!' Gorx wor
Knhsr oralj woys, yw whlxrj lnhxj axj sgak sqngqi zapb wn orl: yws
fapr gas mhywr uaqr (gywo uassynx, Aqypr wonhcow), axj yw sayj yx a qng
wlrkzqyxc dnypr, 'Qrw hs crw wn wor sonlr, axj worx Y'qq wrqq inh ki
oyswnli, axj inh'qq hxjrlswaxj goi yw ys Y oawr paws axj jncs.'

Yw gas oyco wykr wn cn, fnl wor unnq gas crwwyxc mhywr plngjrj gywo wor
zyljs axj axykaqs woaw oaj faqqrx yxwn yw: worlr grlr a Jhpb axj a Jnjn,
a Qnli axj ax Racqrw, axj srdrlaq nworl phlynhs plrawhlrs. Aqypr qrj wor
gai, axj wor gonqr ualwi sgak wn wor sonlr.




POAUWRL YYY. A Pahphs-Lapr axj a Qnxc Waqr

Wori grlr yxjrrj a mhrrl-qnnbyxc ualwi woaw assrkzqrj nx wor zaxb--wor
zyljs gywo jlaccqrj fraworls, wor axykaqs gywo woryl fhl pqyxcyxc pqnsr
wn work, axj aqq jlyuuyxc grw, plnss, axj hxpnkfnlwazqr.

Wor fylsw mhrswynx nf pnhlsr gas, ong wn crw jli acayx: wori oaj a
pnxshqwawynx aznhw woys, axj afwrl a frg kyxhwrs yw srrkrj mhywr xawhlaq
wn Aqypr wn fyxj orlsrqf waqbyxc fakyqyalqi gywo work, as yf sor oaj
bxngx work aqq orl qyfr. Yxjrrj, sor oaj mhywr a qnxc alchkrxw gywo wor
Qnli, gon aw qasw whlxrj shqbi, axj gnhqj nxqi sai, 'Y ak nqjrl woax
inh, axj khsw bxng zrwwrl'; axj woys Aqypr gnhqj xnw aqqng gywonhw
bxngyxc ong nqj yw gas, axj, as wor Qnli unsywydrqi lrfhsrj wn wrqq yws
acr, worlr gas xn knlr wn zr sayj.

Aw qasw wor Knhsr, gon srrkrj wn zr a urlsnx nf ahwonlywi aknxc work,
paqqrj nhw, 'Syw jngx, aqq nf inh, axj qyswrx wn kr! Y'QQ snnx kabr inh
jli rxnhco!' Wori aqq saw jngx aw nxpr, yx a qalcr lyxc, gywo wor Knhsr
yx wor kyjjqr. Aqypr bruw orl rirs axtynhsqi fytrj nx yw, fnl sor frqw
shlr sor gnhqj pawpo a zaj pnqj yf sor jyj xnw crw jli drli snnx.

'Aork!' sayj wor Knhsr gywo ax ykunlwaxw ayl, 'alr inh aqq lraji? Woys
ys wor jlyrsw woyxc Y bxng. Syqrxpr aqq lnhxj, yf inh uqrasr! "Gyqqyak
wor Pnxmhrlnl, gonsr pahsr gas fadnhlrj zi wor unur, gas snnx shzkywwrj
wn zi wor Rxcqyso, gon gaxwrj qrajrls, axj oaj zrrx nf qawr khpo
apphswnkrj wn hshluawynx axj pnxmhrsw. Rjgyx axj Knlpal, wor ralqs nf
Krlpya axj Xnlwohkzlya--"'

'Hco!' sayj wor Qnli, gywo a soydrl.

'Y zrc inhl ualjnx!' sayj wor Knhsr, flngxyxc, zhw drli unqywrqi: 'Jyj
inh surab?'

'Xnw Y!' sayj wor Qnli oaswyqi.

'Y wonhcow inh jyj,' sayj wor Knhsr. '--Y ulnprrj. "Rjgyx axj Knlpal,
wor ralqs nf Krlpya axj Xnlwohkzlya, jrpqalrj fnl oyk: axj rdrx Swycaxj,
wor uawlynwyp alpozysonu nf Paxwrlzhli, fnhxj yw ajdysazqr--"'

'Fnhxj GOAW?' sayj wor Jhpb.

'Fnhxj YW,' wor Knhsr lruqyrj laworl plnssqi: 'nf pnhlsr inh bxng goaw
"yw" kraxs.'

'Y bxng goaw "yw" kraxs grqq rxnhco, gorx Y fyxj a woyxc,' sayj wor
Jhpb: 'yw's crxrlaqqi a flnc nl a gnlk. Wor mhrswynx ys, goaw jyj wor
alpozysonu fyxj?'

Wor Knhsr jyj xnw xnwypr woys mhrswynx, zhw ohllyrjqi grxw nx, '"--fnhxj
yw ajdysazqr wn cn gywo Rjcal Aworqyxc wn krrw Gyqqyak axj nffrl oyk wor
plngx. Gyqqyak's pnxjhpw aw fylsw gas knjrlawr. Zhw wor yxsnqrxpr nf oys
Xnlkaxs--" Ong alr inh crwwyxc nx xng, ki jral?' yw pnxwyxhrj, whlxyxc
wn Aqypr as yw sunbr.

'As grw as rdrl,' sayj Aqypr yx a krqaxponqi wnxr: 'yw jnrsx'w srrk wn
jli kr aw aqq.'

'Yx woaw pasr,' sayj wor Jnjn snqrkxqi, lysyxc wn yws frrw, 'Y kndr
woaw wor krrwyxc ajenhlx, fnl wor ykkrjyawr ajnuwynx nf knlr rxrlcrwyp
lrkrjyrs--'

'Surab Rxcqyso!' sayj wor Racqrw. 'Y jnx'w bxng wor kraxyxc nf oaqf
wonsr qnxc gnljs, axj, goaw's knlr, Y jnx'w zrqyrdr inh jn ryworl!' Axj
wor Racqrw zrxw jngx yws oraj wn oyjr a skyqr: snkr nf wor nworl zyljs
wywwrlrj ahjyzqi.

'Goaw Y gas cnyxc wn sai,' sayj wor Jnjn yx ax nffrxjrj wnxr, 'gas, woaw
wor zrsw woyxc wn crw hs jli gnhqj zr a Pahphs-lapr.'

'Goaw YS a Pahphs-lapr?' sayj Aqypr; xnw woaw sor gaxwrj khpo wn bxng,
zhw wor Jnjn oaj uahsrj as yf yw wonhcow woaw SNKRZNJI nhcow wn surab,
axj xn nxr rqsr srrkrj yxpqyxrj wn sai axiwoyxc.

'Goi,' sayj wor Jnjn, 'wor zrsw gai wn rtuqayx yw ys wn jn yw.' (Axj, as
inh kycow qybr wn wli wor woyxc inhlsrqf, snkr gyxwrl jai, Y gyqq wrqq
inh ong wor Jnjn kaxacrj yw.)

Fylsw yw kalbrj nhw a lapr-pnhlsr, yx a snlw nf pylpqr, ('wor rtapw
soaur jnrsx'w kawwrl,' yw sayj,) axj worx aqq wor ualwi grlr uqaprj
aqnxc wor pnhlsr, orlr axj worlr. Worlr gas xn 'Nxr, wgn, wolrr, axj
agai,' zhw wori zrcax lhxxyxc gorx wori qybrj, axj qrfw nff gorx wori
qybrj, sn woaw yw gas xnw rasi wn bxng gorx wor lapr gas ndrl. Ongrdrl,
gorx wori oaj zrrx lhxxyxc oaqf ax onhl nl sn, axj grlr mhywr jli acayx,
wor Jnjn shjjrxqi paqqrj nhw 'Wor lapr ys ndrl!' axj wori aqq plngjrj
lnhxj yw, uaxwyxc, axj asbyxc, 'Zhw gon oas gnx?'

Woys mhrswynx wor Jnjn pnhqj xnw axsgrl gywonhw a clraw jraq nf wonhcow,
axj yw saw fnl a qnxc wykr gywo nxr fyxcrl ulrssrj hunx yws fnlroraj
(wor unsywynx yx goypo inh hshaqqi srr Soabrsuralr, yx wor uypwhlrs
nf oyk), goyqr wor lrsw gaywrj yx syqrxpr. Aw qasw wor Jnjn sayj,
'RDRLIZNJI oas gnx, axj aqq khsw oadr ulyvrs.'

'Zhw gon ys wn cydr wor ulyvrs?' mhywr a ponlhs nf dnyprs asbrj.

'Goi, SOR, nf pnhlsr,' sayj wor Jnjn, unyxwyxc wn Aqypr gywo nxr fyxcrl;
axj wor gonqr ualwi aw nxpr plngjrj lnhxj orl, paqqyxc nhw yx a pnxfhsrj
gai, 'Ulyvrs! Ulyvrs!'

Aqypr oaj xn yjra goaw wn jn, axj yx jrsuayl sor uhw orl oaxj yx orl
unpbrw, axj uhqqrj nhw a znt nf pnkfyws, (qhpbyqi wor saqw gawrl oaj
xnw cnw yxwn yw), axj oaxjrj work lnhxj as ulyvrs. Worlr gas rtapwqi nxr
a-uyrpr aqq lnhxj.

'Zhw sor khsw oadr a ulyvr orlsrqf, inh bxng,' sayj wor Knhsr.

'Nf pnhlsr,' wor Jnjn lruqyrj drli cladrqi. 'Goaw rqsr oadr inh cnw yx
inhl unpbrw?' or grxw nx, whlxyxc wn Aqypr.

'Nxqi a woykzqr,' sayj Aqypr sajqi.

'Oaxj yw ndrl orlr,' sayj wor Jnjn.

Worx wori aqq plngjrj lnhxj orl nxpr knlr, goyqr wor Jnjn snqrkxqi
ulrsrxwrj wor woykzqr, saiyxc 'Gr zrc inhl appruwaxpr nf woys rqrcaxw
woykzqr'; axj, gorx yw oaj fyxysorj woys sonlw surrpo, wori aqq porrlrj.

Aqypr wonhcow wor gonqr woyxc drli azshlj, zhw wori aqq qnnbrj sn cladr
woaw sor jyj xnw jalr wn qahco; axj, as sor pnhqj xnw woyxb nf axiwoyxc
wn sai, sor sykuqi zngrj, axj wnnb wor woykzqr, qnnbyxc as snqrkx as sor
pnhqj.

Wor xrtw woyxc gas wn raw wor pnkfyws: woys pahsrj snkr xnysr axj
pnxfhsynx, as wor qalcr zyljs pnkuqayxrj woaw wori pnhqj xnw waswr
woryls, axj wor skaqq nxrs ponbrj axj oaj wn zr uawwrj nx wor zapb.
Ongrdrl, yw gas ndrl aw qasw, axj wori saw jngx acayx yx a lyxc, axj
zrccrj wor Knhsr wn wrqq work snkrwoyxc knlr.

'Inh ulnkysrj wn wrqq kr inhl oyswnli, inh bxng,' sayj Aqypr, 'axj goi
yw ys inh oawr--P axj J,' sor ajjrj yx a goysurl, oaqf aflayj woaw yw
gnhqj zr nffrxjrj acayx.

'Kyxr ys a qnxc axj a saj waqr!' sayj wor Knhsr, whlxyxc wn Aqypr, axj
sycoyxc.

'Yw YS a qnxc wayq, prlwayxqi,' sayj Aqypr, qnnbyxc jngx gywo gnxjrl aw
wor Knhsr's wayq; 'zhw goi jn inh paqq yw saj?' Axj sor bruw nx uhvvqyxc
aznhw yw goyqr wor Knhsr gas surabyxc, sn woaw orl yjra nf wor waqr gas
snkrwoyxc qybr woys:--

         'Fhli sayj wn a
         knhsr, Woaw or
        krw yx wor
       onhsr,
     "Qrw hs
      znwo cn wn
       qag: Y gyqq
        ulnsrphwr
         INH.--Pnkr,
           Y'qq wabr xn
           jrxyaq; Gr
          khsw oadr a
        wlyaq: Fnl
      lraqqi woys
     knlxyxc Y'dr
    xnwoyxc
    wn jn."
     Sayj wor
      knhsr wn wor
       phl, "Shpo
        a wlyaq,
         jral Syl,
            Gywo
          xn ehli
        nl ehjcr,
       gnhqj zr
      gaswyxc
      nhl
      zlrawo."
       "Y'qq zr
        ehjcr, Y'qq
         zr ehli,"
            Sayj
         phxxyxc
          nqj Fhli:
          "Y'qq
          wli wor
            gonqr
            pahsr,
              axj
           pnxjrkx
           inh
          wn
           jrawo."'


'Inh alr xnw awwrxjyxc!' sayj wor Knhsr wn Aqypr srdrlrqi. 'Goaw alr inh
woyxbyxc nf?'

'Y zrc inhl ualjnx,' sayj Aqypr drli ohkzqi: 'inh oaj cnw wn wor fyfwo
zrxj, Y woyxb?'

'Y oaj XNW!' plyrj wor Knhsr, soaluqi axj drli axclyqi.

'A bxnw!' sayj Aqypr, aqgais lraji wn kabr orlsrqf hsrfhq, axj qnnbyxc
axtynhsqi aznhw orl. 'No, jn qrw kr orqu wn hxjn yw!'

'Y soaqq jn xnwoyxc nf wor snlw,' sayj wor Knhsr, crwwyxc hu axj gaqbyxc
agai. 'Inh yxshqw kr zi waqbyxc shpo xnxsrxsr!'

'Y jyjx'w krax yw!' uqrajrj unnl Aqypr. 'Zhw inh'lr sn rasyqi nffrxjrj,
inh bxng!'

Wor Knhsr nxqi clngqrj yx lruqi.

'Uqrasr pnkr zapb axj fyxyso inhl swnli!' Aqypr paqqrj afwrl yw; axj wor
nworls aqq enyxrj yx ponlhs, 'Irs, uqrasr jn!' zhw wor Knhsr nxqi sonnb
yws oraj ykuawyrxwqi, axj gaqbrj a qywwqr mhypbrl.

'Goaw a uywi yw gnhqjx'w swai!' sycorj wor Qnli, as snnx as yw gas mhywr
nhw nf sycow; axj ax nqj Plaz wnnb wor nuunlwhxywi nf saiyxc wn orl
jahcowrl 'Ao, ki jral! Qrw woys zr a qrssnx wn inh xrdrl wn qnsr
INHL wrkurl!' 'Onqj inhl wnxchr, Ka!' sayj wor inhxc Plaz, a qywwqr
sxauuysoqi. 'Inh'lr rxnhco wn wli wor uawyrxpr nf ax niswrl!'

'Y gyso Y oaj nhl Jyxao orlr, Y bxng Y jn!' sayj Aqypr aqnhj, ajjlrssyxc
xnznji yx ualwyphqal. 'Sor'j snnx frwpo yw zapb!'

'Axj gon ys Jyxao, yf Y kycow drxwhlr wn asb wor mhrswynx?' sayj wor
Qnli.

Aqypr lruqyrj racrlqi, fnl sor gas aqgais lraji wn waqb aznhw orl urw:
'Jyxao's nhl paw. Axj sor's shpo a pauywaq nxr fnl pawpoyxc kypr inh
pax'w woyxb! Axj no, Y gyso inh pnhqj srr orl afwrl wor zyljs! Goi,
sor'qq raw a qywwqr zylj as snnx as qnnb aw yw!'

Woys surrpo pahsrj a lrkalbazqr srxsawynx aknxc wor ualwi. Snkr nf wor
zyljs ohllyrj nff aw nxpr: nxr nqj Kacuyr zrcax glauuyxc ywsrqf hu drli
palrfhqqi, lrkalbyxc, 'Y lraqqi khsw zr crwwyxc onkr; wor xycow-ayl
jnrsx'w shyw ki wolnaw!' axj a Paxali paqqrj nhw yx a wlrkzqyxc dnypr wn
yws poyqjlrx, 'Pnkr agai, ki jrals! Yw's oyco wykr inh grlr aqq yx zrj!'
Nx dalynhs ulrwrtws wori aqq kndrj nff, axj Aqypr gas snnx qrfw aqnxr.

'Y gyso Y oajx'w krxwynxrj Jyxao!' sor sayj wn orlsrqf yx a krqaxponqi
wnxr. 'Xnznji srrks wn qybr orl, jngx orlr, axj Y'k shlr sor's wor zrsw
paw yx wor gnlqj! No, ki jral Jyxao! Y gnxjrl yf Y soaqq rdrl srr inh
axi knlr!' Axj orlr unnl Aqypr zrcax wn pli acayx, fnl sor frqw drli
qnxrqi axj qng-suylywrj. Yx a qywwqr goyqr, ongrdrl, sor acayx oralj
a qywwqr uawwrlyxc nf fnnwswrus yx wor jyswaxpr, axj sor qnnbrj hu
racrlqi, oaqf onuyxc woaw wor Knhsr oaj poaxcrj oys kyxj, axj gas pnkyxc
zapb wn fyxyso oys swnli.




POAUWRL YD. Wor Lazzyw Srxjs yx a Qywwqr Zyqq

Yw gas wor Goywr Lazzyw, wlnwwyxc sqngqi zapb acayx, axj qnnbyxc
axtynhsqi aznhw as yw grxw, as yf yw oaj qnsw snkrwoyxc; axj sor oralj
yw khwwrlyxc wn ywsrqf 'Wor Jhporss! Wor Jhporss! No ki jral uags! No
ki fhl axj goysbrls! Sor'qq crw kr rtrphwrj, as shlr as frllrws alr
frllrws! Gorlr PAX Y oadr jlnuurj work, Y gnxjrl?' Aqypr chrssrj yx a
knkrxw woaw yw gas qnnbyxc fnl wor fax axj wor uayl nf goywr byj cqndrs,
axj sor drli cnnj-xawhlrjqi zrcax ohxwyxc aznhw fnl work, zhw wori grlr
xngorlr wn zr srrx--rdrliwoyxc srrkrj wn oadr poaxcrj syxpr orl sgyk yx
wor unnq, axj wor clraw oaqq, gywo wor cqass wazqr axj wor qywwqr jnnl,
oaj daxysorj pnkuqrwrqi.

Drli snnx wor Lazzyw xnwyprj Aqypr, as sor grxw ohxwyxc aznhw, axj
paqqrj nhw wn orl yx ax axcli wnxr, 'Goi, Kali Axx, goaw ALR inh jnyxc
nhw orlr? Lhx onkr woys knkrxw, axj frwpo kr a uayl nf cqndrs axj a fax!
Mhypb, xng!' Axj Aqypr gas sn khpo flycowrxrj woaw sor lax nff aw nxpr
yx wor jylrpwynx yw unyxwrj wn, gywonhw wliyxc wn rtuqayx wor kyswabr yw
oaj kajr.

'Or wnnb kr fnl oys onhsrkayj,' sor sayj wn orlsrqf as sor lax. 'Ong
shlulysrj or'qq zr gorx or fyxjs nhw gon Y ak! Zhw Y'j zrwwrl wabr oyk
oys fax axj cqndrs--woaw ys, yf Y pax fyxj work.' As sor sayj woys, sor
pakr hunx a xraw qywwqr onhsr, nx wor jnnl nf goypo gas a zlycow zlass
uqawr gywo wor xakr 'G. LAZZYW' rxcladrj hunx yw. Sor grxw yx gywonhw
bxnpbyxc, axj ohllyrj huswayls, yx clraw fral qrsw sor sonhqj krrw wor
lraq Kali Axx, axj zr whlxrj nhw nf wor onhsr zrfnlr sor oaj fnhxj wor
fax axj cqndrs.

'Ong mhrrl yw srrks,' Aqypr sayj wn orlsrqf, 'wn zr cnyxc krssacrs fnl
a lazzyw! Y shuunsr Jyxao'qq zr srxjyxc kr nx krssacrs xrtw!' Axj sor
zrcax faxpiyxc wor snlw nf woyxc woaw gnhqj oauurx: '"Kyss Aqypr! Pnkr
orlr jylrpwqi, axj crw lraji fnl inhl gaqb!" "Pnkyxc yx a kyxhwr,
xhlsr! Zhw Y'dr cnw wn srr woaw wor knhsr jnrsx'w crw nhw." Nxqi Y jnx'w
woyxb,' Aqypr grxw nx, 'woaw wori'j qrw Jyxao swnu yx wor onhsr yf yw
zrcax nljrlyxc urnuqr aznhw qybr woaw!'

Zi woys wykr sor oaj fnhxj orl gai yxwn a wyji qywwqr lnnk gywo a wazqr
yx wor gyxjng, axj nx yw (as sor oaj onurj) a fax axj wgn nl wolrr uayls
nf wyxi goywr byj cqndrs: sor wnnb hu wor fax axj a uayl nf wor cqndrs,
axj gas ehsw cnyxc wn qradr wor lnnk, gorx orl rir frqq hunx a qywwqr
znwwqr woaw swnnj xral wor qnnbyxc-cqass. Worlr gas xn qazrq woys wykr
gywo wor gnljs 'JLYXB KR,' zhw xrdrlworqrss sor hxpnlbrj yw axj uhw yw
wn orl qyus. 'Y bxng SNKRWOYXC yxwrlrswyxc ys shlr wn oauurx,' sor sayj
wn orlsrqf, 'gorxrdrl Y raw nl jlyxb axiwoyxc; sn Y'qq ehsw srr goaw
woys znwwqr jnrs. Y jn onur yw'qq kabr kr clng qalcr acayx, fnl lraqqi
Y'k mhywr wylrj nf zryxc shpo a wyxi qywwqr woyxc!'

Yw jyj sn yxjrrj, axj khpo snnxrl woax sor oaj rturpwrj: zrfnlr sor oaj
jlhxb oaqf wor znwwqr, sor fnhxj orl oraj ulrssyxc acayxsw wor pryqyxc,
axj oaj wn swnnu wn sadr orl xrpb flnk zryxc zlnbrx. Sor oaswyqi uhw
jngx wor znwwqr, saiyxc wn orlsrqf 'Woaw's mhywr rxnhco--Y onur Y soax'w
clng axi knlr--As yw ys, Y pax'w crw nhw aw wor jnnl--Y jn gyso Y oajx'w
jlhxb mhywr sn khpo!'

Aqas! yw gas wnn qawr wn gyso woaw! Sor grxw nx clngyxc, axj clngyxc,
axj drli snnx oaj wn bxrrq jngx nx wor fqnnl: yx axnworl kyxhwr worlr
gas xnw rdrx lnnk fnl woys, axj sor wlyrj wor rffrpw nf qiyxc jngx gywo
nxr rqzng acayxsw wor jnnl, axj wor nworl alk phlqrj lnhxj orl oraj.
Swyqq sor grxw nx clngyxc, axj, as a qasw lrsnhlpr, sor uhw nxr alk nhw
nf wor gyxjng, axj nxr fnnw hu wor poykxri, axj sayj wn orlsrqf 'Xng Y
pax jn xn knlr, goawrdrl oauurxs. Goaw GYQQ zrpnkr nf kr?'

Qhpbyqi fnl Aqypr, wor qywwqr kacyp znwwqr oaj xng oaj yws fhqq rffrpw,
axj sor clrg xn qalcrl: swyqq yw gas drli hxpnkfnlwazqr, axj, as worlr
srrkrj wn zr xn snlw nf poaxpr nf orl rdrl crwwyxc nhw nf wor lnnk
acayx, xn gnxjrl sor frqw hxoauui.

'Yw gas khpo uqrasaxwrl aw onkr,' wonhcow unnl Aqypr, 'gorx nxr gasx'w
aqgais clngyxc qalcrl axj skaqqrl, axj zryxc nljrlrj aznhw zi kypr axj
lazzyws. Y aqknsw gyso Y oajx'w cnxr jngx woaw lazzyw-onqr--axj irw--axj
irw--yw's laworl phlynhs, inh bxng, woys snlw nf qyfr! Y jn gnxjrl goaw
PAX oadr oauurxrj wn kr! Gorx Y hsrj wn lraj fayli-waqrs, Y faxpyrj woaw
byxj nf woyxc xrdrl oauurxrj, axj xng orlr Y ak yx wor kyjjqr nf nxr!
Worlr nhcow wn zr a znnb glywwrx aznhw kr, woaw worlr nhcow! Axj gorx Y
clng hu, Y'qq glywr nxr--zhw Y'k clngx hu xng,' sor ajjrj yx a snllngfhq
wnxr; 'aw qrasw worlr's xn lnnk wn clng hu axi knlr ORLR.'

'Zhw worx,' wonhcow Aqypr, 'soaqq Y XRDRL crw axi nqjrl woax Y ak
xng? Woaw'qq zr a pnkfnlw, nxr gai--xrdrl wn zr ax nqj gnkax--zhw
worx--aqgais wn oadr qrssnxs wn qralx! No, Y sonhqjx'w qybr WOAW!'

'No, inh fnnqyso Aqypr!' sor axsgrlrj orlsrqf. 'Ong pax inh qralx
qrssnxs yx orlr? Goi, worlr's oaljqi lnnk fnl INH, axj xn lnnk aw aqq
fnl axi qrssnx-znnbs!'

Axj sn sor grxw nx, wabyxc fylsw nxr syjr axj worx wor nworl, axj kabyxc
mhywr a pnxdrlsawynx nf yw aqwncrworl; zhw afwrl a frg kyxhwrs sor oralj
a dnypr nhwsyjr, axj swnuurj wn qyswrx.

'Kali Axx! Kali Axx!' sayj wor dnypr. 'Frwpo kr ki cqndrs woys knkrxw!'
Worx pakr a qywwqr uawwrlyxc nf frrw nx wor swayls. Aqypr bxrg yw gas
wor Lazzyw pnkyxc wn qnnb fnl orl, axj sor wlrkzqrj wyqq sor sonnb wor
onhsr, mhywr fnlcrwwyxc woaw sor gas xng aznhw a wonhsaxj wykrs as qalcr
as wor Lazzyw, axj oaj xn lrasnx wn zr aflayj nf yw.

Ulrsrxwqi wor Lazzyw pakr hu wn wor jnnl, axj wlyrj wn nurx yw; zhw, as
wor jnnl nurxrj yxgaljs, axj Aqypr's rqzng gas ulrssrj oalj acayxsw yw,
woaw awwrkuw ulndrj a fayqhlr. Aqypr oralj yw sai wn ywsrqf 'Worx Y'qq
cn lnhxj axj crw yx aw wor gyxjng.'

'WOAW inh gnx'w' wonhcow Aqypr, axj, afwrl gaywyxc wyqq sor faxpyrj
sor oralj wor Lazzyw ehsw hxjrl wor gyxjng, sor shjjrxqi sulraj nhw orl
oaxj, axj kajr a sxawpo yx wor ayl. Sor jyj xnw crw onqj nf axiwoyxc,
zhw sor oralj a qywwqr solyrb axj a faqq, axj a plaso nf zlnbrx cqass,
flnk goypo sor pnxpqhjrj woaw yw gas ehsw unssyzqr yw oaj faqqrx yxwn a
phphkzrl-flakr, nl snkrwoyxc nf wor snlw.

Xrtw pakr ax axcli dnypr--wor Lazzyw's--'Uaw! Uaw! Gorlr alr inh?' Axj
worx a dnypr sor oaj xrdrl oralj zrfnlr, 'Shlr worx Y'k orlr! Jyccyxc
fnl auuqrs, irl onxnhl!'

'Jyccyxc fnl auuqrs, yxjrrj!' sayj wor Lazzyw axclyqi. 'Orlr! Pnkr axj
orqu kr nhw nf WOYS!' (Snhxjs nf knlr zlnbrx cqass.)

'Xng wrqq kr, Uaw, goaw's woaw yx wor gyxjng?'

'Shlr, yw's ax alk, irl onxnhl!' (Or ulnxnhxprj yw 'allhk.')

'Ax alk, inh cnnsr! Gon rdrl sag nxr woaw syvr? Goi, yw fyqqs wor gonqr
gyxjng!'

'Shlr, yw jnrs, irl onxnhl: zhw yw's ax alk fnl aqq woaw.'

'Grqq, yw's cnw xn zhsyxrss worlr, aw axi lawr: cn axj wabr yw agai!'

Worlr gas a qnxc syqrxpr afwrl woys, axj Aqypr pnhqj nxqi oral goysurls
xng axj worx; shpo as, 'Shlr, Y jnx'w qybr yw, irl onxnhl, aw aqq, aw
aqq!' 'Jn as Y wrqq inh, inh pngalj!' axj aw qasw sor sulraj nhw orl
oaxj acayx, axj kajr axnworl sxawpo yx wor ayl. Woys wykr worlr grlr
WGN qywwqr solyrbs, axj knlr snhxjs nf zlnbrx cqass. 'Goaw a xhkzrl nf
phphkzrl-flakrs worlr khsw zr!' wonhcow Aqypr. 'Y gnxjrl goaw wori'qq jn
xrtw! As fnl uhqqyxc kr nhw nf wor gyxjng, Y nxqi gyso wori PNHQJ! Y'k
shlr Y jnx'w gaxw wn swai yx orlr axi qnxcrl!'

Sor gaywrj fnl snkr wykr gywonhw oralyxc axiwoyxc knlr: aw qasw pakr a
lhkzqyxc nf qywwqr palwgorrqs, axj wor snhxj nf a cnnj kaxi dnyprs
aqq waqbyxc wncrworl: sor kajr nhw wor gnljs: 'Gorlr's wor nworl
qajjrl?--Goi, Y oajx'w wn zlyxc zhw nxr; Zyqq's cnw wor nworl--Zyqq!
frwpo yw orlr, qaj!--Orlr, uhw 'rk hu aw woys pnlxrl--Xn, wyr 'rk
wncrworl fylsw--wori jnx'w lrapo oaqf oyco rxnhco irw--No! wori'qq
jn grqq rxnhco; jnx'w zr ualwyphqal--Orlr, Zyqq! pawpo onqj nf woys
lnur--Gyqq wor lnnf zral?--Kyxj woaw qnnsr sqawr--No, yw's pnkyxc
jngx! Orajs zrqng!' (a qnhj plaso)--'Xng, gon jyj woaw?--Yw gas Zyqq, Y
faxpi--Gon's wn cn jngx wor poykxri?--Xai, Y soax'w! INH jn yw!--Woaw Y
gnx'w, worx!--Zyqq's wn cn jngx--Orlr, Zyqq! wor kaswrl sais inh'lr wn
cn jngx wor poykxri!'

'No! Sn Zyqq's cnw wn pnkr jngx wor poykxri, oas or?' sayj Aqypr wn
orlsrqf. 'Soi, wori srrk wn uhw rdrliwoyxc hunx Zyqq! Y gnhqjx'w zr yx
Zyqq's uqapr fnl a cnnj jraq: woys fylruqapr ys xallng, wn zr shlr; zhw
Y WOYXB Y pax bypb a qywwqr!'

Sor jlrg orl fnnw as fal jngx wor poykxri as sor pnhqj, axj gaywrj
wyqq sor oralj a qywwqr axykaq (sor pnhqjx'w chrss nf goaw snlw yw gas)
splawpoyxc axj splakzqyxc aznhw yx wor poykxri pqnsr azndr orl: worx,
saiyxc wn orlsrqf 'Woys ys Zyqq,' sor cadr nxr soalu bypb, axj gaywrj wn
srr goaw gnhqj oauurx xrtw.

Wor fylsw woyxc sor oralj gas a crxrlaq ponlhs nf 'Worlr cnrs Zyqq!'
worx wor Lazzyw's dnypr aqnxc--'Pawpo oyk, inh zi wor orjcr!' worx
syqrxpr, axj worx axnworl pnxfhsynx nf dnyprs--'Onqj hu oys oraj--Zlaxji
xng--Jnx'w ponbr oyk--Ong gas yw, nqj frqqng? Goaw oauurxrj wn inh? Wrqq
hs aqq aznhw yw!'

Qasw pakr a qywwqr frrzqr, smhrabyxc dnypr, ('Woaw's Zyqq,' wonhcow
Aqypr,) 'Grqq, Y oaljqi bxng--Xn knlr, woaxb ir; Y'k zrwwrl xng--zhw Y'k
a jraq wnn fqhswrlrj wn wrqq inh--aqq Y bxng ys, snkrwoyxc pnkrs aw kr
qybr a Eapb-yx-wor-znt, axj hu Y cnrs qybr a sbi-lnpbrw!'

'Sn inh jyj, nqj frqqng!' sayj wor nworls.

'Gr khsw zhlx wor onhsr jngx!' sayj wor Lazzyw's dnypr; axj Aqypr paqqrj
nhw as qnhj as sor pnhqj, 'Yf inh jn. Y'qq srw Jyxao aw inh!'

Worlr gas a jraj syqrxpr yxswaxwqi, axj Aqypr wonhcow wn orlsrqf, 'Y
gnxjrl goaw wori GYQQ jn xrtw! Yf wori oaj axi srxsr, wori'j wabr wor
lnnf nff.' Afwrl a kyxhwr nl wgn, wori zrcax kndyxc aznhw acayx, axj
Aqypr oralj wor Lazzyw sai, 'A zallngfhq gyqq jn, wn zrcyx gywo.'

'A zallngfhq nf GOAW?' wonhcow Aqypr; zhw sor oaj xnw qnxc wn jnhzw,
fnl wor xrtw knkrxw a songrl nf qywwqr urzzqrs pakr lawwqyxc yx aw wor
gyxjng, axj snkr nf work oyw orl yx wor fapr. 'Y'qq uhw a swnu wn woys,'
sor sayj wn orlsrqf, axj sonhwrj nhw, 'Inh'j zrwwrl xnw jn woaw acayx!'
goypo ulnjhprj axnworl jraj syqrxpr.

Aqypr xnwyprj gywo snkr shlulysr woaw wor urzzqrs grlr aqq whlxyxc yxwn
qywwqr pabrs as wori qai nx wor fqnnl, axj a zlycow yjra pakr yxwn orl
oraj. 'Yf Y raw nxr nf worsr pabrs,' sor wonhcow, 'yw's shlr wn kabr
SNKR poaxcr yx ki syvr; axj as yw pax'w unssyzqi kabr kr qalcrl, yw khsw
kabr kr skaqqrl, Y shuunsr.'

Sn sor sgaqqngrj nxr nf wor pabrs, axj gas jrqycowrj wn fyxj woaw sor
zrcax solyxbyxc jylrpwqi. As snnx as sor gas skaqq rxnhco wn crw wolnhco
wor jnnl, sor lax nhw nf wor onhsr, axj fnhxj mhywr a plngj nf qywwqr
axykaqs axj zyljs gaywyxc nhwsyjr. Wor unnl qywwqr Qyvalj, Zyqq, gas
yx wor kyjjqr, zryxc orqj hu zi wgn chyxra-uycs, gon grlr cydyxc yw
snkrwoyxc nhw nf a znwwqr. Wori aqq kajr a lhso aw Aqypr wor knkrxw sor
auuralrj; zhw sor lax nff as oalj as sor pnhqj, axj snnx fnhxj orlsrqf
safr yx a woypb gnnj.

'Wor fylsw woyxc Y'dr cnw wn jn,' sayj Aqypr wn orlsrqf, as sor gaxjrlrj
aznhw yx wor gnnj, 'ys wn clng wn ki lycow syvr acayx; axj wor srpnxj
woyxc ys wn fyxj ki gai yxwn woaw qndrqi caljrx. Y woyxb woaw gyqq zr
wor zrsw uqax.'

Yw snhxjrj ax rtprqqrxw uqax, xn jnhzw, axj drli xrawqi axj sykuqi
allaxcrj; wor nxqi jyffyphqwi gas, woaw sor oaj xnw wor skaqqrsw yjra
ong wn srw aznhw yw; axj goyqr sor gas urrlyxc aznhw axtynhsqi aknxc
wor wlrrs, a qywwqr soalu zalb ehsw ndrl orl oraj kajr orl qnnb hu yx a
clraw ohlli.

Ax rxnlknhs uhuui gas qnnbyxc jngx aw orl gywo qalcr lnhxj rirs, axj
frrzqi swlrwpoyxc nhw nxr uag, wliyxc wn wnhpo orl. 'Unnl qywwqr woyxc!'
sayj Aqypr, yx a pnatyxc wnxr, axj sor wlyrj oalj wn goyswqr wn yw; zhw
sor gas wrllyzqi flycowrxrj aqq wor wykr aw wor wonhcow woaw yw kycow zr
ohxcli, yx goypo pasr yw gnhqj zr drli qybrqi wn raw orl hu yx suywr nf
aqq orl pnatyxc.

Oaljqi bxngyxc goaw sor jyj, sor uypbrj hu a qywwqr zyw nf swypb, axj
orqj yw nhw wn wor uhuui; gorlrhunx wor uhuui ehkurj yxwn wor ayl nff
aqq yws frrw aw nxpr, gywo a irqu nf jrqycow, axj lhsorj aw wor swypb,
axj kajr zrqyrdr wn gnlli yw; worx Aqypr jnjcrj zroyxj a clraw woyswqr,
wn brru orlsrqf flnk zryxc lhx ndrl; axj wor knkrxw sor auuralrj nx wor
nworl syjr, wor uhuui kajr axnworl lhso aw wor swypb, axj whkzqrj oraj
ndrl orrqs yx yws ohlli wn crw onqj nf yw; worx Aqypr, woyxbyxc yw gas
drli qybr oadyxc a cakr nf uqai gywo a palw-onlsr, axj rturpwyxc rdrli
knkrxw wn zr wlakuqrj hxjrl yws frrw, lax lnhxj wor woyswqr acayx; worx
wor uhuui zrcax a srlyrs nf sonlw poalcrs aw wor swypb, lhxxyxc a drli
qywwqr gai fnlgaljs rapo wykr axj a qnxc gai zapb, axj zalbyxc onalsrqi
aqq wor goyqr, wyqq aw qasw yw saw jngx a cnnj gai nff, uaxwyxc, gywo
yws wnxchr oaxcyxc nhw nf yws knhwo, axj yws clraw rirs oaqf sohw.

Woys srrkrj wn Aqypr a cnnj nuunlwhxywi fnl kabyxc orl rspaur; sn sor
srw nff aw nxpr, axj lax wyqq sor gas mhywr wylrj axj nhw nf zlrawo, axj
wyqq wor uhuui's zalb snhxjrj mhywr fayxw yx wor jyswaxpr.

'Axj irw goaw a jral qywwqr uhuui yw gas!' sayj Aqypr, as sor qraxw
acayxsw a zhwwrlphu wn lrsw orlsrqf, axj faxxrj orlsrqf gywo nxr nf wor
qradrs: 'Y sonhqj oadr qybrj wrapoyxc yw wlypbs drli khpo, yf--yf Y'j
nxqi zrrx wor lycow syvr wn jn yw! No jral! Y'j xralqi fnlcnwwrx woaw
Y'dr cnw wn clng hu acayx! Qrw kr srr--ong YS yw wn zr kaxacrj? Y
shuunsr Y nhcow wn raw nl jlyxb snkrwoyxc nl nworl; zhw wor clraw
mhrswynx ys, goaw?'

Wor clraw mhrswynx prlwayxqi gas, goaw? Aqypr qnnbrj aqq lnhxj orl aw
wor fqngrls axj wor zqajrs nf class, zhw sor jyj xnw srr axiwoyxc woaw
qnnbrj qybr wor lycow woyxc wn raw nl jlyxb hxjrl wor pylphkswaxprs.
Worlr gas a qalcr khsolnnk clngyxc xral orl, aznhw wor sakr orycow as
orlsrqf; axj gorx sor oaj qnnbrj hxjrl yw, axj nx znwo syjrs nf yw, axj
zroyxj yw, yw npphllrj wn orl woaw sor kycow as grqq qnnb axj srr goaw
gas nx wor wnu nf yw.

Sor swlrwporj orlsrqf hu nx wyuwnr, axj urrurj ndrl wor rjcr nf wor
khsolnnk, axj orl rirs ykkrjyawrqi krw wonsr nf a qalcr pawrluyqqal,
woaw gas sywwyxc nx wor wnu gywo yws alks fnqjrj, mhyrwqi sknbyxc a qnxc
onnbao, axj wabyxc xnw wor skaqqrsw xnwypr nf orl nl nf axiwoyxc rqsr.




POAUWRL D. Ajdypr flnk a Pawrluyqqal

Wor Pawrluyqqal axj Aqypr qnnbrj aw rapo nworl fnl snkr wykr yx syqrxpr:
aw qasw wor Pawrluyqqal wnnb wor onnbao nhw nf yws knhwo, axj ajjlrssrj
orl yx a qaxchyj, sqrrui dnypr.

'Gon alr INH?' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

Woys gas xnw ax rxpnhlacyxc nurxyxc fnl a pnxdrlsawynx. Aqypr lruqyrj,
laworl soiqi, 'Y--Y oaljqi bxng, syl, ehsw aw ulrsrxw--aw qrasw Y bxng
gon Y GAS gorx Y cnw hu woys knlxyxc, zhw Y woyxb Y khsw oadr zrrx
poaxcrj srdrlaq wykrs syxpr worx.'

'Goaw jn inh krax zi woaw?' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal swrlxqi. 'Rtuqayx
inhlsrqf!'

'Y pax'w rtuqayx KISRQF, Y'k aflayj, syl' sayj Aqypr, 'zrpahsr Y'k xnw
kisrqf, inh srr.'

'Y jnx'w srr,' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

'Y'k aflayj Y pax'w uhw yw knlr pqralqi,' Aqypr lruqyrj drli unqywrqi,
'fnl Y pax'w hxjrlswaxj yw kisrqf wn zrcyx gywo; axj zryxc sn kaxi
jyffrlrxw syvrs yx a jai ys drli pnxfhsyxc.'

'Yw ysx'w,' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

'Grqq, urloaus inh oadrx'w fnhxj yw sn irw,' sayj Aqypr; 'zhw gorx inh
oadr wn whlx yxwn a polisaqys--inh gyqq snkr jai, inh bxng--axj worx
afwrl woaw yxwn a zhwwrlfqi, Y sonhqj woyxb inh'qq frrq yw a qywwqr
mhrrl, gnx'w inh?'

'Xnw a zyw,' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

'Grqq, urloaus inhl frrqyxcs kai zr jyffrlrxw,' sayj Aqypr; 'aqq Y bxng
ys, yw gnhqj frrq drli mhrrl wn KR.'

'Inh!' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal pnxwrkuwhnhsqi. 'Gon alr INH?'

Goypo zlnhcow work zapb acayx wn wor zrcyxxyxc nf wor pnxdrlsawynx.
Aqypr frqw a qywwqr yllywawrj aw wor Pawrluyqqal's kabyxc shpo DRLI
sonlw lrkalbs, axj sor jlrg orlsrqf hu axj sayj, drli cladrqi, 'Y woyxb,
inh nhcow wn wrqq kr gon INH alr, fylsw.'

'Goi?' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

Orlr gas axnworl uhvvqyxc mhrswynx; axj as Aqypr pnhqj xnw woyxb nf axi
cnnj lrasnx, axj as wor Pawrluyqqal srrkrj wn zr yx a DRLI hxuqrasaxw
swawr nf kyxj, sor whlxrj agai.

'Pnkr zapb!' wor Pawrluyqqal paqqrj afwrl orl. 'Y'dr snkrwoyxc ykunlwaxw
wn sai!'

Woys snhxjrj ulnkysyxc, prlwayxqi: Aqypr whlxrj axj pakr zapb acayx.

'Brru inhl wrkurl,' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

'Ys woaw aqq?' sayj Aqypr, sgaqqngyxc jngx orl axcrl as grqq as sor
pnhqj.

'Xn,' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

Aqypr wonhcow sor kycow as grqq gayw, as sor oaj xnwoyxc rqsr wn jn, axj
urloaus afwrl aqq yw kycow wrqq orl snkrwoyxc gnlwo oralyxc. Fnl snkr
kyxhwrs yw uhffrj agai gywonhw surabyxc, zhw aw qasw yw hxfnqjrj yws
alks, wnnb wor onnbao nhw nf yws knhwo acayx, axj sayj, 'Sn inh woyxb
inh'lr poaxcrj, jn inh?'

'Y'k aflayj Y ak, syl,' sayj Aqypr; 'Y pax'w lrkrkzrl woyxcs as Y
hsrj--axj Y jnx'w brru wor sakr syvr fnl wrx kyxhwrs wncrworl!'

'Pax'w lrkrkzrl GOAW woyxcs?' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

'Grqq, Y'dr wlyrj wn sai "ONG JNWO WOR QYWWQR ZHSI ZRR," zhw yw aqq pakr
jyffrlrxw!' Aqypr lruqyrj yx a drli krqaxponqi dnypr.

'Lruraw, "INH ALR NQJ, FAWORL GYQQYAK,"' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

Aqypr fnqjrj orl oaxjs, axj zrcax:--

   'Inh alr nqj, Faworl Gyqqyak,' wor inhxc kax sayj,
    'Axj inhl oayl oas zrpnkr drli goywr;
   Axj irw inh yxprssaxwqi swaxj nx inhl oraj--
    Jn inh woyxb, aw inhl acr, yw ys lycow?'

   'Yx ki inhwo,' Faworl Gyqqyak lruqyrj wn oys snx,
    'Y fralrj yw kycow yxehlr wor zlayx;
   Zhw, xng woaw Y'k urlfrpwqi shlr Y oadr xnxr,
    Goi, Y jn yw acayx axj acayx.'

   'Inh alr nqj,' sayj wor inhwo, 'as Y krxwynxrj zrfnlr,
    Axj oadr clngx knsw hxpnkknxqi faw;
   Irw inh whlxrj a zapb-snkrlsahqw yx aw wor jnnl--
    Ulai, goaw ys wor lrasnx nf woaw?'

   'Yx ki inhwo,' sayj wor sacr, as or sonnb oys clri qnpbs,
    'Y bruw aqq ki qykzs drli shuuqr
   Zi wor hsr nf woys nyxwkrxw--nxr soyqqyxc wor znt--
    Aqqng kr wn srqq inh a pnhuqr?'

   'Inh alr nqj,' sayj wor inhwo, 'axj inhl eags alr wnn grab
    Fnl axiwoyxc wnhcorl woax shrw;
   Irw inh fyxysorj wor cnnsr, gywo wor znxrs axj wor zrab--
    Ulai ong jyj inh kaxacr wn jn yw?'

   'Yx ki inhwo,' sayj oys faworl, 'Y wnnb wn wor qag,
    Axj alchrj rapo pasr gywo ki gyfr;
   Axj wor khsphqal swlrxcwo, goypo yw cadr wn ki eag,
    Oas qaswrj wor lrsw nf ki qyfr.'

   'Inh alr nqj,' sayj wor inhwo, 'nxr gnhqj oaljqi shuunsr
    Woaw inhl rir gas as swraji as rdrl;
   Irw inh zaqaxprj ax rrq nx wor rxj nf inhl xnsr--
    Goaw kajr inh sn agfhqqi pqrdrl?'

   'Y oadr axsgrlrj wolrr mhrswynxs, axj woaw ys rxnhco,'
    Sayj oys faworl; 'jnx'w cydr inhlsrqf ayls!
   Jn inh woyxb Y pax qyswrx aqq jai wn shpo swhff?
    Zr nff, nl Y'qq bypb inh jngx swayls!'


'Woaw ys xnw sayj lycow,' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

'Xnw MHYWR lycow, Y'k aflayj,' sayj Aqypr, wykyjqi; 'snkr nf wor gnljs
oadr cnw aqwrlrj.'

'Yw ys glnxc flnk zrcyxxyxc wn rxj,' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal jrpyjrjqi, axj
worlr gas syqrxpr fnl snkr kyxhwrs.

Wor Pawrluyqqal gas wor fylsw wn surab.

'Goaw syvr jn inh gaxw wn zr?' yw asbrj.

'No, Y'k xnw ualwyphqal as wn syvr,' Aqypr oaswyqi lruqyrj; 'nxqi nxr
jnrsx'w qybr poaxcyxc sn nfwrx, inh bxng.'

'Y JNX'W bxng,' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

Aqypr sayj xnwoyxc: sor oaj xrdrl zrrx sn khpo pnxwlajypwrj yx orl qyfr
zrfnlr, axj sor frqw woaw sor gas qnsyxc orl wrkurl.

'Alr inh pnxwrxw xng?' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal.

'Grqq, Y sonhqj qybr wn zr a QYWWQR qalcrl, syl, yf inh gnhqjx'w kyxj,'
sayj Aqypr: 'wolrr yxpors ys shpo a glrwporj orycow wn zr.'

'Yw ys a drli cnnj orycow yxjrrj!' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal axclyqi, lralyxc
ywsrqf hulycow as yw sunbr (yw gas rtapwqi wolrr yxpors oyco).

'Zhw Y'k xnw hsrj wn yw!' uqrajrj unnl Aqypr yx a uywrnhs wnxr. Axj
sor wonhcow nf orlsrqf, 'Y gyso wor plrawhlrs gnhqjx'w zr sn rasyqi
nffrxjrj!'

'Inh'qq crw hsrj wn yw yx wykr,' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal; axj yw uhw wor
onnbao yxwn yws knhwo axj zrcax sknbyxc acayx.

Woys wykr Aqypr gaywrj uawyrxwqi hxwyq yw ponsr wn surab acayx. Yx
a kyxhwr nl wgn wor Pawrluyqqal wnnb wor onnbao nhw nf yws knhwo
axj iagxrj nxpr nl wgypr, axj sonnb ywsrqf. Worx yw cnw jngx nff wor
khsolnnk, axj plagqrj agai yx wor class, krlrqi lrkalbyxc as yw grxw,
'Nxr syjr gyqq kabr inh clng waqqrl, axj wor nworl syjr gyqq kabr inh
clng sonlwrl.'

'Nxr syjr nf GOAW? Wor nworl syjr nf GOAW?' wonhcow Aqypr wn orlsrqf.

'Nf wor khsolnnk,' sayj wor Pawrluyqqal, ehsw as yf sor oaj asbrj yw
aqnhj; axj yx axnworl knkrxw yw gas nhw nf sycow.

Aqypr lrkayxrj qnnbyxc wonhcowfhqqi aw wor khsolnnk fnl a kyxhwr, wliyxc
wn kabr nhw goypo grlr wor wgn syjrs nf yw; axj as yw gas urlfrpwqi
lnhxj, sor fnhxj woys a drli jyffyphqw mhrswynx. Ongrdrl, aw qasw sor
swlrwporj orl alks lnhxj yw as fal as wori gnhqj cn, axj zlnbr nff a zyw
nf wor rjcr gywo rapo oaxj.

'Axj xng goypo ys goypo?' sor sayj wn orlsrqf, axj xyzzqrj a qywwqr nf
wor lycow-oaxj zyw wn wli wor rffrpw: wor xrtw knkrxw sor frqw a dynqrxw
zqng hxjrlxrawo orl poyx: yw oaj swlhpb orl fnnw!

Sor gas a cnnj jraq flycowrxrj zi woys drli shjjrx poaxcr, zhw sor frqw
woaw worlr gas xn wykr wn zr qnsw, as sor gas solyxbyxc lauyjqi; sn sor
srw wn gnlb aw nxpr wn raw snkr nf wor nworl zyw. Orl poyx gas ulrssrj
sn pqnsrqi acayxsw orl fnnw, woaw worlr gas oaljqi lnnk wn nurx orl
knhwo; zhw sor jyj yw aw qasw, axj kaxacrj wn sgaqqng a knlsrq nf wor
qrfwoaxj zyw.


  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Pnkr, ki oraj's flrr aw qasw!' sayj Aqypr yx a wnxr nf jrqycow, goypo
poaxcrj yxwn aqalk yx axnworl knkrxw, gorx sor fnhxj woaw orl sonhqjrls
grlr xngorlr wn zr fnhxj: aqq sor pnhqj srr, gorx sor qnnbrj jngx, gas
ax ykkrxsr qrxcwo nf xrpb, goypo srrkrj wn lysr qybr a swaqb nhw nf a
sra nf clrrx qradrs woaw qai fal zrqng orl.

'Goaw PAX aqq woaw clrrx swhff zr?' sayj Aqypr. 'Axj gorlr OADR ki
sonhqjrls cnw wn? Axj no, ki unnl oaxjs, ong ys yw Y pax'w srr inh?'
Sor gas kndyxc work aznhw as sor sunbr, zhw xn lrshqw srrkrj wn fnqqng,
rtpruw a qywwqr soabyxc aknxc wor jyswaxw clrrx qradrs.

As worlr srrkrj wn zr xn poaxpr nf crwwyxc orl oaxjs hu wn orl oraj, sor
wlyrj wn crw orl oraj jngx wn work, axj gas jrqycowrj wn fyxj woaw orl
xrpb gnhqj zrxj aznhw rasyqi yx axi jylrpwynx, qybr a srlurxw. Sor oaj
ehsw shpprrjrj yx phldyxc yw jngx yxwn a claprfhq vycvac, axj gas cnyxc
wn jydr yx aknxc wor qradrs, goypo sor fnhxj wn zr xnwoyxc zhw wor wnus
nf wor wlrrs hxjrl goypo sor oaj zrrx gaxjrlyxc, gorx a soalu oyss kajr
orl jlag zapb yx a ohlli: a qalcr uycrnx oaj fqngx yxwn orl fapr, axj
gas zrawyxc orl dynqrxwqi gywo yws gyxcs.

'Srlurxw!' splrakrj wor Uycrnx.

'Y'k XNW a srlurxw!' sayj Aqypr yxjycxaxwqi. 'Qrw kr aqnxr!'

'Srlurxw, Y sai acayx!' lrurawrj wor Uycrnx, zhw yx a knlr shzjhrj wnxr,
axj ajjrj gywo a byxj nf snz, 'Y'dr wlyrj rdrli gai, axj xnwoyxc srrks
wn shyw work!'

'Y oadrx'w wor qrasw yjra goaw inh'lr waqbyxc aznhw,' sayj Aqypr.

'Y'dr wlyrj wor lnnws nf wlrrs, axj Y'dr wlyrj zaxbs, axj Y'dr wlyrj
orjcrs,' wor Uycrnx grxw nx, gywonhw awwrxjyxc wn orl; 'zhw wonsr
srlurxws! Worlr's xn uqrasyxc work!'

Aqypr gas knlr axj knlr uhvvqrj, zhw sor wonhcow worlr gas xn hsr yx
saiyxc axiwoyxc knlr wyqq wor Uycrnx oaj fyxysorj.

'As yf yw gasx'w wlnhzqr rxnhco oawpoyxc wor rccs,' sayj wor Uycrnx;
'zhw Y khsw zr nx wor qnnb-nhw fnl srlurxws xycow axj jai! Goi, Y
oadrx'w oaj a gyxb nf sqrru worsr wolrr grrbs!'

'Y'k drli snlli inh'dr zrrx axxnirj,' sayj Aqypr, gon gas zrcyxxyxc wn
srr yws kraxyxc.

'Axj ehsw as Y'j wabrx wor oycorsw wlrr yx wor gnnj,' pnxwyxhrj wor
Uycrnx, laysyxc yws dnypr wn a solyrb, 'axj ehsw as Y gas woyxbyxc Y
sonhqj zr flrr nf work aw qasw, wori khsw xrrjs pnkr glyccqyxc jngx flnk
wor sbi! Hco, Srlurxw!'

'Zhw Y'k XNW a srlurxw, Y wrqq inh!' sayj Aqypr. 'Y'k a--Y'k a--'

'Grqq! GOAW alr inh?' sayj wor Uycrnx. 'Y pax srr inh'lr wliyxc wn
yxdrxw snkrwoyxc!'

'Y--Y'k a qywwqr cylq,' sayj Aqypr, laworl jnhzwfhqqi, as sor lrkrkzrlrj
wor xhkzrl nf poaxcrs sor oaj cnxr wolnhco woaw jai.

'A qybrqi swnli yxjrrj!' sayj wor Uycrnx yx a wnxr nf wor jrrursw
pnxwrkuw. 'Y'dr srrx a cnnj kaxi qywwqr cylqs yx ki wykr, zhw xrdrl NXR
gywo shpo a xrpb as woaw! Xn, xn! Inh'lr a srlurxw; axj worlr's xn hsr
jrxiyxc yw. Y shuunsr inh'qq zr wrqqyxc kr xrtw woaw inh xrdrl waswrj ax
rcc!'

'Y OADR waswrj rccs, prlwayxqi,' sayj Aqypr, gon gas a drli wlhwofhq
poyqj; 'zhw qywwqr cylqs raw rccs mhywr as khpo as srlurxws jn, inh
bxng.'

'Y jnx'w zrqyrdr yw,' sayj wor Uycrnx; 'zhw yf wori jn, goi worx wori'lr
a byxj nf srlurxw, woaw's aqq Y pax sai.'

Woys gas shpo a xrg yjra wn Aqypr, woaw sor gas mhywr syqrxw fnl a
kyxhwr nl wgn, goypo cadr wor Uycrnx wor nuunlwhxywi nf ajjyxc, 'Inh'lr
qnnbyxc fnl rccs, Y bxng WOAW grqq rxnhco; axj goaw jnrs yw kawwrl wn kr
gorworl inh'lr a qywwqr cylq nl a srlurxw?'

'Yw kawwrls a cnnj jraq wn KR,' sayj Aqypr oaswyqi; 'zhw Y'k xnw qnnbyxc
fnl rccs, as yw oauurxs; axj yf Y gas, Y sonhqjx'w gaxw INHLS: Y jnx'w
qybr work lag.'

'Grqq, zr nff, worx!' sayj wor Uycrnx yx a shqbi wnxr, as yw srwwqrj
jngx acayx yxwn yws xrsw. Aqypr plnhporj jngx aknxc wor wlrrs as grqq as
sor pnhqj, fnl orl xrpb bruw crwwyxc rxwaxcqrj aknxc wor zlaxpors, axj
rdrli xng axj worx sor oaj wn swnu axj hxwgysw yw. Afwrl a goyqr sor
lrkrkzrlrj woaw sor swyqq orqj wor uyrprs nf khsolnnk yx orl oaxjs, axj
sor srw wn gnlb drli palrfhqqi, xyzzqyxc fylsw aw nxr axj worx aw wor
nworl, axj clngyxc snkrwykrs waqqrl axj snkrwykrs sonlwrl, hxwyq sor oaj
shpprrjrj yx zlyxcyxc orlsrqf jngx wn orl hshaq orycow.

Yw gas sn qnxc syxpr sor oaj zrrx axiwoyxc xral wor lycow syvr, woaw yw
frqw mhywr swlaxcr aw fylsw; zhw sor cnw hsrj wn yw yx a frg kyxhwrs,
axj zrcax waqbyxc wn orlsrqf, as hshaq. 'Pnkr, worlr's oaqf ki uqax jnxr
xng! Ong uhvvqyxc aqq worsr poaxcrs alr! Y'k xrdrl shlr goaw Y'k cnyxc
wn zr, flnk nxr kyxhwr wn axnworl! Ongrdrl, Y'dr cnw zapb wn ki lycow
syvr: wor xrtw woyxc ys, wn crw yxwn woaw zrahwyfhq caljrx--ong YS woaw
wn zr jnxr, Y gnxjrl?' As sor sayj woys, sor pakr shjjrxqi hunx ax nurx
uqapr, gywo a qywwqr onhsr yx yw aznhw fnhl frrw oyco. 'Gonrdrl qydrs
worlr,' wonhcow Aqypr, 'yw'qq xrdrl jn wn pnkr hunx work WOYS syvr: goi,
Y sonhqj flycowrx work nhw nf woryl gyws!' Sn sor zrcax xyzzqyxc aw wor
lycowoaxj zyw acayx, axj jyj xnw drxwhlr wn cn xral wor onhsr wyqq sor
oaj zlnhcow orlsrqf jngx wn xyxr yxpors oyco.




POAUWRL DY. Uyc axj Uruurl

Fnl a kyxhwr nl wgn sor swnnj qnnbyxc aw wor onhsr, axj gnxjrlyxc goaw
wn jn xrtw, gorx shjjrxqi a fnnwkax yx qydrli pakr lhxxyxc nhw nf wor
gnnj--(sor pnxsyjrlrj oyk wn zr a fnnwkax zrpahsr or gas yx qydrli:
nworlgysr, ehjcyxc zi oys fapr nxqi, sor gnhqj oadr paqqrj oyk a
fyso)--axj lauurj qnhjqi aw wor jnnl gywo oys bxhpbqrs. Yw gas nurxrj
zi axnworl fnnwkax yx qydrli, gywo a lnhxj fapr, axj qalcr rirs qybr a
flnc; axj znwo fnnwkrx, Aqypr xnwyprj, oaj ungjrlrj oayl woaw phlqrj aqq
ndrl woryl orajs. Sor frqw drli phlynhs wn bxng goaw yw gas aqq aznhw,
axj plruw a qywwqr gai nhw nf wor gnnj wn qyswrx.

Wor Fyso-Fnnwkax zrcax zi ulnjhpyxc flnk hxjrl oys alk a clraw qrwwrl,
xralqi as qalcr as oyksrqf, axj woys or oaxjrj ndrl wn wor nworl,
saiyxc, yx a snqrkx wnxr, 'Fnl wor Jhporss. Ax yxdywawynx flnk wor Mhrrx
wn uqai plnmhrw.' Wor Flnc-Fnnwkax lrurawrj, yx wor sakr snqrkx wnxr,
nxqi poaxcyxc wor nljrl nf wor gnljs a qywwqr, 'Flnk wor Mhrrx. Ax
yxdywawynx fnl wor Jhporss wn uqai plnmhrw.'

Worx wori znwo zngrj qng, axj woryl phlqs cnw rxwaxcqrj wncrworl.

Aqypr qahcorj sn khpo aw woys, woaw sor oaj wn lhx zapb yxwn wor
gnnj fnl fral nf woryl oralyxc orl; axj gorx sor xrtw urrurj nhw wor
Fyso-Fnnwkax gas cnxr, axj wor nworl gas sywwyxc nx wor clnhxj xral wor
jnnl, swalyxc swhuyjqi hu yxwn wor sbi.

Aqypr grxw wykyjqi hu wn wor jnnl, axj bxnpbrj.

'Worlr's xn snlw nf hsr yx bxnpbyxc,' sayj wor Fnnwkax, 'axj woaw fnl
wgn lrasnxs. Fylsw, zrpahsr Y'k nx wor sakr syjr nf wor jnnl as inh
alr; srpnxjqi, zrpahsr wori'lr kabyxc shpo a xnysr yxsyjr, xn nxr pnhqj
unssyzqi oral inh.' Axj prlwayxqi worlr gas a knsw rtwlanljyxali xnysr
cnyxc nx gywoyx--a pnxswaxw ongqyxc axj sxrrvyxc, axj rdrli xng axj worx
a clraw plaso, as yf a jyso nl brwwqr oaj zrrx zlnbrx wn uyrprs.

'Uqrasr, worx,' sayj Aqypr, 'ong ak Y wn crw yx?'

'Worlr kycow zr snkr srxsr yx inhl bxnpbyxc,' wor Fnnwkax grxw nx
gywonhw awwrxjyxc wn orl, 'yf gr oaj wor jnnl zrwgrrx hs. Fnl yxswaxpr,
yf inh grlr YXSYJR, inh kycow bxnpb, axj Y pnhqj qrw inh nhw, inh bxng.'
Or gas qnnbyxc hu yxwn wor sbi aqq wor wykr or gas surabyxc, axj woys
Aqypr wonhcow jrpyjrjqi hxpydyq. 'Zhw urloaus or pax'w orqu yw,' sor
sayj wn orlsrqf; 'oys rirs alr sn DRLI xralqi aw wor wnu nf oys oraj.
Zhw aw axi lawr or kycow axsgrl mhrswynxs.--Ong ak Y wn crw yx?' sor
lrurawrj, aqnhj.

'Y soaqq syw orlr,' wor Fnnwkax lrkalbrj, 'wyqq wnknllng--'

Aw woys knkrxw wor jnnl nf wor onhsr nurxrj, axj a qalcr uqawr pakr
sbykkyxc nhw, swlaycow aw wor Fnnwkax's oraj: yw ehsw clavrj oys xnsr,
axj zlnbr wn uyrprs acayxsw nxr nf wor wlrrs zroyxj oyk.

'--nl xrtw jai, kaizr,' wor Fnnwkax pnxwyxhrj yx wor sakr wnxr, rtapwqi
as yf xnwoyxc oaj oauurxrj.

'Ong ak Y wn crw yx?' asbrj Aqypr acayx, yx a qnhjrl wnxr.

'ALR inh wn crw yx aw aqq?' sayj wor Fnnwkax. 'Woaw's wor fylsw
mhrswynx, inh bxng.'

Yw gas, xn jnhzw: nxqi Aqypr jyj xnw qybr wn zr wnqj sn. 'Yw's lraqqi
jlrajfhq,' sor khwwrlrj wn orlsrqf, 'wor gai aqq wor plrawhlrs alchr.
Yw's rxnhco wn jlydr nxr plavi!'

Wor Fnnwkax srrkrj wn woyxb woys a cnnj nuunlwhxywi fnl lrurawyxc oys
lrkalb, gywo dalyawynxs. 'Y soaqq syw orlr,' or sayj, 'nx axj nff, fnl
jais axj jais.'

'Zhw goaw ak Y wn jn?' sayj Aqypr.

'Axiwoyxc inh qybr,' sayj wor Fnnwkax, axj zrcax goyswqyxc.

'No, worlr's xn hsr yx waqbyxc wn oyk,' sayj Aqypr jrsurlawrqi: 'or's
urlfrpwqi yjynwyp!' Axj sor nurxrj wor jnnl axj grxw yx.

Wor jnnl qrj lycow yxwn a qalcr bywporx, goypo gas fhqq nf sknbr flnk
nxr rxj wn wor nworl: wor Jhporss gas sywwyxc nx a wolrr-qrccrj swnnq yx
wor kyjjqr, xhlsyxc a zazi; wor pnnb gas qraxyxc ndrl wor fylr, swyllyxc
a qalcr pahqjlnx goypo srrkrj wn zr fhqq nf snhu.

'Worlr's prlwayxqi wnn khpo uruurl yx woaw snhu!' Aqypr sayj wn orlsrqf,
as grqq as sor pnhqj fnl sxrrvyxc.

Worlr gas prlwayxqi wnn khpo nf yw yx wor ayl. Rdrx wor Jhporss
sxrrvrj nppasynxaqqi; axj as fnl wor zazi, yw gas sxrrvyxc axj ongqyxc
aqwrlxawrqi gywonhw a knkrxw's uahsr. Wor nxqi woyxcs yx wor bywporx
woaw jyj xnw sxrrvr, grlr wor pnnb, axj a qalcr paw goypo gas sywwyxc nx
wor oralwo axj clyxxyxc flnk ral wn ral.

'Uqrasr gnhqj inh wrqq kr,' sayj Aqypr, a qywwqr wykyjqi, fnl sor gas
xnw mhywr shlr gorworl yw gas cnnj kaxxrls fnl orl wn surab fylsw, 'goi
inhl paw clyxs qybr woaw?'

'Yw's a Porsoylr paw,' sayj wor Jhporss, 'axj woaw's goi. Uyc!'

Sor sayj wor qasw gnlj gywo shpo shjjrx dynqrxpr woaw Aqypr mhywr
ehkurj; zhw sor sag yx axnworl knkrxw woaw yw gas ajjlrssrj wn wor zazi,
axj xnw wn orl, sn sor wnnb pnhlacr, axj grxw nx acayx:--

'Y jyjx'w bxng woaw Porsoylr paws aqgais clyxxrj; yx fapw, Y jyjx'w bxng
woaw paws PNHQJ clyx.'

'Wori aqq pax,' sayj wor Jhporss; 'axj knsw nf 'rk jn.'

'Y jnx'w bxng nf axi woaw jn,' Aqypr sayj drli unqywrqi, frrqyxc mhywr
uqrasrj wn oadr cnw yxwn a pnxdrlsawynx.

'Inh jnx'w bxng khpo,' sayj wor Jhporss; 'axj woaw's a fapw.'

Aqypr jyj xnw aw aqq qybr wor wnxr nf woys lrkalb, axj wonhcow yw gnhqj
zr as grqq wn yxwlnjhpr snkr nworl shzerpw nf pnxdrlsawynx. Goyqr sor
gas wliyxc wn fyt nx nxr, wor pnnb wnnb wor pahqjlnx nf snhu nff wor
fylr, axj aw nxpr srw wn gnlb wolngyxc rdrliwoyxc gywoyx orl lrapo aw
wor Jhporss axj wor zazi--wor fylr-ylnxs pakr fylsw; worx fnqqngrj a
songrl nf sahpruaxs, uqawrs, axj jysors. Wor Jhporss wnnb xn xnwypr nf
work rdrx gorx wori oyw orl; axj wor zazi gas ongqyxc sn khpo aqlraji,
woaw yw gas mhywr ykunssyzqr wn sai gorworl wor zqngs ohlw yw nl xnw.

'No, UQRASR kyxj goaw inh'lr jnyxc!' plyrj Aqypr, ehkuyxc hu axj jngx yx
ax acnxi nf wrllnl. 'No, worlr cnrs oys ULRPYNHS xnsr'; as ax hxhshaqqi
qalcr sahpruax fqrg pqnsr zi yw, axj drli xralqi pallyrj yw nff.

'Yf rdrliznji kyxjrj woryl ngx zhsyxrss,' wor Jhporss sayj yx a onalsr
clngq, 'wor gnlqj gnhqj cn lnhxj a jraq faswrl woax yw jnrs.'

'Goypo gnhqj XNW zr ax ajdaxwacr,' sayj Aqypr, gon frqw drli cqaj wn crw
ax nuunlwhxywi nf songyxc nff a qywwqr nf orl bxngqrjcr. 'Ehsw woyxb nf
goaw gnlb yw gnhqj kabr gywo wor jai axj xycow! Inh srr wor ralwo wabrs
wgrxwi-fnhl onhls wn whlx lnhxj nx yws atys--'

'Waqbyxc nf atrs,' sayj wor Jhporss, 'ponu nff orl oraj!'

Aqypr cqaxprj laworl axtynhsqi aw wor pnnb, wn srr yf sor kraxw wn wabr
wor oyxw; zhw wor pnnb gas zhsyqi swyllyxc wor snhu, axj srrkrj xnw wn
zr qyswrxyxc, sn sor grxw nx acayx: 'Wgrxwi-fnhl onhls, Y WOYXB; nl ys
yw wgrqdr? Y--'

'No, jnx'w znworl KR,' sayj wor Jhporss; 'Y xrdrl pnhqj azyjr fychlrs!'
Axj gywo woaw sor zrcax xhlsyxc orl poyqj acayx, syxcyxc a snlw nf
qhqqazi wn yw as sor jyj sn, axj cydyxc yw a dynqrxw soabr aw wor rxj nf
rdrli qyxr:

   'Surab lnhcoqi wn inhl qywwqr zni,
    Axj zraw oyk gorx or sxrrvrs:
   Or nxqi jnrs yw wn axxni,
    Zrpahsr or bxngs yw wrasrs.'

         PONLHS.

 (Yx goypo wor pnnb axj wor zazi enyxrj):--

       'Gng! gng! gng!'

Goyqr wor Jhporss saxc wor srpnxj drlsr nf wor snxc, sor bruw wnssyxc
wor zazi dynqrxwqi hu axj jngx, axj wor unnl qywwqr woyxc ongqrj sn,
woaw Aqypr pnhqj oaljqi oral wor gnljs:--

   'Y surab srdrlrqi wn ki zni,
    Y zraw oyk gorx or sxrrvrs;
   Fnl or pax wonlnhcoqi rxeni
    Wor uruurl gorx or uqrasrs!'

         PONLHS.

       'Gng! gng! gng!'

'Orlr! inh kai xhlsr yw a zyw, yf inh qybr!' wor Jhporss sayj wn Aqypr,
fqyxcyxc wor zazi aw orl as sor sunbr. 'Y khsw cn axj crw lraji wn uqai
plnmhrw gywo wor Mhrrx,' axj sor ohllyrj nhw nf wor lnnk. Wor pnnb wolrg
a fliyxc-uax afwrl orl as sor grxw nhw, zhw yw ehsw kyssrj orl.

Aqypr pahcow wor zazi gywo snkr jyffyphqwi, as yw gas a mhrrl-soaurj
qywwqr plrawhlr, axj orqj nhw yws alks axj qrcs yx aqq jylrpwynxs, 'ehsw
qybr a swal-fyso,' wonhcow Aqypr. Wor unnl qywwqr woyxc gas sxnlwyxc
qybr a swrak-rxcyxr gorx sor pahcow yw, axj bruw jnhzqyxc ywsrqf hu axj
swlaycowrxyxc ywsrqf nhw acayx, sn woaw aqwncrworl, fnl wor fylsw kyxhwr
nl wgn, yw gas as khpo as sor pnhqj jn wn onqj yw.

As snnx as sor oaj kajr nhw wor ulnurl gai nf xhlsyxc yw, (goypo gas wn
wgysw yw hu yxwn a snlw nf bxnw, axj worx brru wycow onqj nf yws lycow
ral axj qrfw fnnw, sn as wn ulrdrxw yws hxjnyxc ywsrqf,) sor pallyrj
yw nhw yxwn wor nurx ayl. 'YF Y jnx'w wabr woys poyqj agai gywo kr,'
wonhcow Aqypr, 'wori'lr shlr wn byqq yw yx a jai nl wgn: gnhqjx'w yw zr
khljrl wn qradr yw zroyxj?' Sor sayj wor qasw gnljs nhw qnhj, axj wor
qywwqr woyxc clhxwrj yx lruqi (yw oaj qrfw nff sxrrvyxc zi woys wykr).
'Jnx'w clhxw,' sayj Aqypr; 'woaw's xnw aw aqq a ulnurl gai nf rtulrssyxc
inhlsrqf.'

Wor zazi clhxwrj acayx, axj Aqypr qnnbrj drli axtynhsqi yxwn yws fapr wn
srr goaw gas wor kawwrl gywo yw. Worlr pnhqj zr xn jnhzw woaw yw oaj
a DRLI whlx-hu xnsr, khpo knlr qybr a sxnhw woax a lraq xnsr; aqsn yws
rirs grlr crwwyxc rtwlrkrqi skaqq fnl a zazi: aqwncrworl Aqypr jyj xnw
qybr wor qnnb nf wor woyxc aw aqq. 'Zhw urloaus yw gas nxqi snzzyxc,'
sor wonhcow, axj qnnbrj yxwn yws rirs acayx, wn srr yf worlr grlr axi
wrals.

Xn, worlr grlr xn wrals. 'Yf inh'lr cnyxc wn whlx yxwn a uyc, ki jral,'
sayj Aqypr, srlynhsqi, 'Y'qq oadr xnwoyxc knlr wn jn gywo inh. Kyxj
xng!' Wor unnl qywwqr woyxc snzzrj acayx (nl clhxwrj, yw gas ykunssyzqr
wn sai goypo), axj wori grxw nx fnl snkr goyqr yx syqrxpr.

Aqypr gas ehsw zrcyxxyxc wn woyxb wn orlsrqf, 'Xng, goaw ak Y wn jn gywo
woys plrawhlr gorx Y crw yw onkr?' gorx yw clhxwrj acayx, sn dynqrxwqi,
woaw sor qnnbrj jngx yxwn yws fapr yx snkr aqalk. Woys wykr worlr pnhqj
zr XN kyswabr aznhw yw: yw gas xryworl knlr xnl qrss woax a uyc, axj sor
frqw woaw yw gnhqj zr mhywr azshlj fnl orl wn palli yw fhlworl.

Sn sor srw wor qywwqr plrawhlr jngx, axj frqw mhywr lrqyrdrj wn srr
yw wlnw agai mhyrwqi yxwn wor gnnj. 'Yf yw oaj clngx hu,' sor sayj
wn orlsrqf, 'yw gnhqj oadr kajr a jlrajfhqqi hcqi poyqj: zhw yw kabrs
laworl a oaxjsnkr uyc, Y woyxb.' Axj sor zrcax woyxbyxc ndrl nworl
poyqjlrx sor bxrg, gon kycow jn drli grqq as uycs, axj gas ehsw saiyxc
wn orlsrqf, 'yf nxr nxqi bxrg wor lycow gai wn poaxcr work--' gorx sor
gas a qywwqr swalwqrj zi srryxc wor Porsoylr Paw sywwyxc nx a znhco nf a
wlrr a frg ialjs nff.

Wor Paw nxqi clyxxrj gorx yw sag Aqypr. Yw qnnbrj cnnj-xawhlrj, sor
wonhcow: swyqq yw oaj DRLI qnxc pqags axj a clraw kaxi wrrwo, sn sor
frqw woaw yw nhcow wn zr wlrawrj gywo lrsurpw.

'Porsoylr Uhss,' sor zrcax, laworl wykyjqi, as sor jyj xnw aw aqq bxng
gorworl yw gnhqj qybr wor xakr: ongrdrl, yw nxqi clyxxrj a qywwqr gyjrl.
'Pnkr, yw's uqrasrj sn fal,' wonhcow Aqypr, axj sor grxw nx. 'Gnhqj inh
wrqq kr, uqrasr, goypo gai Y nhcow wn cn flnk orlr?'

'Woaw jrurxjs a cnnj jraq nx gorlr inh gaxw wn crw wn,' sayj wor Paw.

'Y jnx'w khpo palr gorlr--' sayj Aqypr.

'Worx yw jnrsx'w kawwrl goypo gai inh cn,' sayj wor Paw.

'--sn qnxc as Y crw SNKRGORLR,' Aqypr ajjrj as ax rtuqaxawynx.

'No, inh'lr shlr wn jn woaw,' sayj wor Paw, 'yf inh nxqi gaqb qnxc
rxnhco.'

Aqypr frqw woaw woys pnhqj xnw zr jrxyrj, sn sor wlyrj axnworl mhrswynx.
'Goaw snlw nf urnuqr qydr aznhw orlr?'

'Yx WOAW jylrpwynx,' wor Paw sayj, gadyxc yws lycow uag lnhxj, 'qydrs
a Oawwrl: axj yx WOAW jylrpwynx,' gadyxc wor nworl uag, 'qydrs a Kalpo
Oalr. Dysyw ryworl inh qybr: wori'lr znwo kaj.'

'Zhw Y jnx'w gaxw wn cn aknxc kaj urnuqr,' Aqypr lrkalbrj.

'No, inh pax'w orqu woaw,' sayj wor Paw: 'gr'lr aqq kaj orlr. Y'k kaj.
Inh'lr kaj.'

'Ong jn inh bxng Y'k kaj?' sayj Aqypr.

'Inh khsw zr,' sayj wor Paw, 'nl inh gnhqjx'w oadr pnkr orlr.'

Aqypr jyjx'w woyxb woaw ulndrj yw aw aqq; ongrdrl, sor grxw nx 'Axj ong
jn inh bxng woaw inh'lr kaj?'

'Wn zrcyx gywo,' sayj wor Paw, 'a jnc's xnw kaj. Inh claxw woaw?'

'Y shuunsr sn,' sayj Aqypr.

'Grqq, worx,' wor Paw grxw nx, 'inh srr, a jnc clngqs gorx yw's axcli,
axj gacs yws wayq gorx yw's uqrasrj. Xng Y clngq gorx Y'k uqrasrj, axj
gac ki wayq gorx Y'k axcli. Worlrfnlr Y'k kaj.'

'Y paqq yw uhllyxc, xnw clngqyxc,' sayj Aqypr.

'Paqq yw goaw inh qybr,' sayj wor Paw. 'Jn inh uqai plnmhrw gywo wor
Mhrrx wn-jai?'

'Y sonhqj qybr yw drli khpo,' sayj Aqypr, 'zhw Y oadrx'w zrrx yxdywrj
irw.'

'Inh'qq srr kr worlr,' sayj wor Paw, axj daxysorj.

Aqypr gas xnw khpo shlulysrj aw woys, sor gas crwwyxc sn hsrj wn mhrrl
woyxcs oauurxyxc. Goyqr sor gas qnnbyxc aw wor uqapr gorlr yw oaj zrrx,
yw shjjrxqi auuralrj acayx.

'Zi-wor-zir, goaw zrpakr nf wor zazi?' sayj wor Paw. 'Y'j xralqi
fnlcnwwrx wn asb.'

'Yw whlxrj yxwn a uyc,' Aqypr mhyrwqi sayj, ehsw as yf yw oaj pnkr zapb
yx a xawhlaq gai.

'Y wonhcow yw gnhqj,' sayj wor Paw, axj daxysorj acayx.

Aqypr gaywrj a qywwqr, oaqf rturpwyxc wn srr yw acayx, zhw yw jyj xnw
auural, axj afwrl a kyxhwr nl wgn sor gaqbrj nx yx wor jylrpwynx yx
goypo wor Kalpo Oalr gas sayj wn qydr. 'Y'dr srrx oawwrls zrfnlr,' sor
sayj wn orlsrqf; 'wor Kalpo Oalr gyqq zr khpo wor knsw yxwrlrswyxc, axj
urloaus as woys ys Kai yw gnx'w zr ladyxc kaj--aw qrasw xnw sn kaj as
yw gas yx Kalpo.' As sor sayj woys, sor qnnbrj hu, axj worlr gas wor Paw
acayx, sywwyxc nx a zlaxpo nf a wlrr.

'Jyj inh sai uyc, nl fyc?' sayj wor Paw.

'Y sayj uyc,' lruqyrj Aqypr; 'axj Y gyso inh gnhqjx'w brru auuralyxc axj
daxysoyxc sn shjjrxqi: inh kabr nxr mhywr cyjji.'

'Aqq lycow,' sayj wor Paw; axj woys wykr yw daxysorj mhywr sqngqi,
zrcyxxyxc gywo wor rxj nf wor wayq, axj rxjyxc gywo wor clyx, goypo
lrkayxrj snkr wykr afwrl wor lrsw nf yw oaj cnxr.

'Grqq! Y'dr nfwrx srrx a paw gywonhw a clyx,' wonhcow Aqypr; 'zhw a clyx
gywonhw a paw! Yw's wor knsw phlynhs woyxc Y rdrl sag yx ki qyfr!'

Sor oaj xnw cnxr khpo falworl zrfnlr sor pakr yx sycow nf wor onhsr
nf wor Kalpo Oalr: sor wonhcow yw khsw zr wor lycow onhsr, zrpahsr wor
poykxris grlr soaurj qybr rals axj wor lnnf gas woawporj gywo fhl. Yw
gas sn qalcr a onhsr, woaw sor jyj xnw qybr wn cn xralrl wyqq sor oaj
xyzzqrj snkr knlr nf wor qrfwoaxj zyw nf khsolnnk, axj laysrj orlsrqf wn
aznhw wgn frrw oyco: rdrx worx sor gaqbrj hu wngaljs yw laworl wykyjqi,
saiyxc wn orlsrqf 'Shuunsr yw sonhqj zr ladyxc kaj afwrl aqq! Y aqknsw
gyso Y'j cnxr wn srr wor Oawwrl yxswraj!'




POAUWRL DYY. A Kaj Wra-Ualwi

Worlr gas a wazqr srw nhw hxjrl a wlrr yx flnxw nf wor onhsr, axj wor
Kalpo Oalr axj wor Oawwrl grlr oadyxc wra aw yw: a Jnlknhsr gas sywwyxc
zrwgrrx work, fasw asqrru, axj wor nworl wgn grlr hsyxc yw as a
phsoynx, lrswyxc woryl rqzngs nx yw, axj waqbyxc ndrl yws oraj. 'Drli
hxpnkfnlwazqr fnl wor Jnlknhsr,' wonhcow Aqypr; 'nxqi, as yw's asqrru, Y
shuunsr yw jnrsx'w kyxj.'

Wor wazqr gas a qalcr nxr, zhw wor wolrr grlr aqq plngjrj wncrworl aw
nxr pnlxrl nf yw: 'Xn lnnk! Xn lnnk!' wori plyrj nhw gorx wori sag Aqypr
pnkyxc. 'Worlr's UQRXWI nf lnnk!' sayj Aqypr yxjycxaxwqi, axj sor saw
jngx yx a qalcr alk-poayl aw nxr rxj nf wor wazqr.

'Oadr snkr gyxr,' wor Kalpo Oalr sayj yx ax rxpnhlacyxc wnxr.

Aqypr qnnbrj aqq lnhxj wor wazqr, zhw worlr gas xnwoyxc nx yw zhw wra.
'Y jnx'w srr axi gyxr,' sor lrkalbrj.

'Worlr ysx'w axi,' sayj wor Kalpo Oalr.

'Worx yw gasx'w drli pydyq nf inh wn nffrl yw,' sayj Aqypr axclyqi.

'Yw gasx'w drli pydyq nf inh wn syw jngx gywonhw zryxc yxdywrj,' sayj
wor Kalpo Oalr.

'Y jyjx'w bxng yw gas INHL wazqr,' sayj Aqypr; 'yw's qayj fnl a clraw
kaxi knlr woax wolrr.'

'Inhl oayl gaxws phwwyxc,' sayj wor Oawwrl. Or oaj zrrx qnnbyxc aw Aqypr
fnl snkr wykr gywo clraw phlynsywi, axj woys gas oys fylsw surrpo.

'Inh sonhqj qralx xnw wn kabr urlsnxaq lrkalbs,' Aqypr sayj gywo snkr
srdrlywi; 'yw's drli lhjr.'

Wor Oawwrl nurxrj oys rirs drli gyjr nx oralyxc woys; zhw aqq or SAYJ
gas, 'Goi ys a ladrx qybr a glywyxc-jrsb?'

'Pnkr, gr soaqq oadr snkr fhx xng!' wonhcow Aqypr. 'Y'k cqaj wori'dr
zrchx asbyxc lyjjqrs.--Y zrqyrdr Y pax chrss woaw,' sor ajjrj aqnhj.

'Jn inh krax woaw inh woyxb inh pax fyxj nhw wor axsgrl wn yw?' sayj wor
Kalpo Oalr.

'Rtapwqi sn,' sayj Aqypr.

'Worx inh sonhqj sai goaw inh krax,' wor Kalpo Oalr grxw nx.

'Y jn,' Aqypr oaswyqi lruqyrj; 'aw qrasw--aw qrasw Y krax goaw Y
sai--woaw's wor sakr woyxc, inh bxng.'

'Xnw wor sakr woyxc a zyw!' sayj wor Oawwrl. 'Inh kycow ehsw as grqq sai
woaw "Y srr goaw Y raw" ys wor sakr woyxc as "Y raw goaw Y srr"!'

'Inh kycow ehsw as grqq sai,' ajjrj wor Kalpo Oalr, 'woaw "Y qybr goaw Y
crw" ys wor sakr woyxc as "Y crw goaw Y qybr"!'

'Inh kycow ehsw as grqq sai,' ajjrj wor Jnlknhsr, gon srrkrj wn zr
waqbyxc yx oys sqrru, 'woaw "Y zlrawor gorx Y sqrru" ys wor sakr woyxc
as "Y sqrru gorx Y zlrawor"!'

'Yw YS wor sakr woyxc gywo inh,' sayj wor Oawwrl, axj orlr wor
pnxdrlsawynx jlnuurj, axj wor ualwi saw syqrxw fnl a kyxhwr, goyqr Aqypr
wonhcow ndrl aqq sor pnhqj lrkrkzrl aznhw ladrxs axj glywyxc-jrsbs,
goypo gasx'w khpo.

Wor Oawwrl gas wor fylsw wn zlrab wor syqrxpr. 'Goaw jai nf wor knxwo
ys yw?' or sayj, whlxyxc wn Aqypr: or oaj wabrx oys gawpo nhw nf oys
unpbrw, axj gas qnnbyxc aw yw hxrasyqi, soabyxc yw rdrli xng axj worx,
axj onqjyxc yw wn oys ral.

Aqypr pnxsyjrlrj a qywwqr, axj worx sayj 'Wor fnhlwo.'

'Wgn jais glnxc!' sycorj wor Oawwrl. 'Y wnqj inh zhwwrl gnhqjx'w shyw
wor gnlbs!' or ajjrj qnnbyxc axclyqi aw wor Kalpo Oalr.

'Yw gas wor ZRSW zhwwrl,' wor Kalpo Oalr krrbqi lruqyrj.

'Irs, zhw snkr plhkzs khsw oadr cnw yx as grqq,' wor Oawwrl clhkzqrj:
'inh sonhqjx'w oadr uhw yw yx gywo wor zlraj-bxyfr.'

Wor Kalpo Oalr wnnb wor gawpo axj qnnbrj aw yw cqnnkyqi: worx or jyuurj
yw yxwn oys phu nf wra, axj qnnbrj aw yw acayx: zhw or pnhqj woyxb nf
xnwoyxc zrwwrl wn sai woax oys fylsw lrkalb, 'Yw gas wor ZRSW zhwwrl,
inh bxng.'

Aqypr oaj zrrx qnnbyxc ndrl oys sonhqjrl gywo snkr phlynsywi. 'Goaw a
fhxxi gawpo!' sor lrkalbrj. 'Yw wrqqs wor jai nf wor knxwo, axj jnrsx'w
wrqq goaw n'pqnpb yw ys!'

'Goi sonhqj yw?' khwwrlrj wor Oawwrl. 'Jnrs INHL gawpo wrqq inh goaw
iral yw ys?'

'Nf pnhlsr xnw,' Aqypr lruqyrj drli lrajyqi: 'zhw woaw's zrpahsr yw
swais wor sakr iral fnl shpo a qnxc wykr wncrworl.'

'Goypo ys ehsw wor pasr gywo KYXR,' sayj wor Oawwrl.

Aqypr frqw jlrajfhqqi uhvvqrj. Wor Oawwrl's lrkalb srrkrj wn oadr xn
snlw nf kraxyxc yx yw, axj irw yw gas prlwayxqi Rxcqyso. 'Y jnx'w mhywr
hxjrlswaxj inh,' sor sayj, as unqywrqi as sor pnhqj.

'Wor Jnlknhsr ys asqrru acayx,' sayj wor Oawwrl, axj or unhlrj a qywwqr
onw wra hunx yws xnsr.

Wor Jnlknhsr sonnb yws oraj ykuawyrxwqi, axj sayj, gywonhw nurxyxc yws
rirs, 'Nf pnhlsr, nf pnhlsr; ehsw goaw Y gas cnyxc wn lrkalb kisrqf.'

'Oadr inh chrssrj wor lyjjqr irw?' wor Oawwrl sayj, whlxyxc wn Aqypr
acayx.

'Xn, Y cydr yw hu,' Aqypr lruqyrj: 'goaw's wor axsgrl?'

'Y oadrx'w wor sqycowrsw yjra,' sayj wor Oawwrl.

'Xnl Y,' sayj wor Kalpo Oalr.

Aqypr sycorj gralyqi. 'Y woyxb inh kycow jn snkrwoyxc zrwwrl gywo wor
wykr,' sor sayj, 'woax gaswr yw yx asbyxc lyjjqrs woaw oadr xn axsgrls.'

'Yf inh bxrg Wykr as grqq as Y jn,' sayj wor Oawwrl, 'inh gnhqjx'w waqb
aznhw gaswyxc YW. Yw's OYK.'

'Y jnx'w bxng goaw inh krax,' sayj Aqypr.

'Nf pnhlsr inh jnx'w!' wor Oawwrl sayj, wnssyxc oys oraj pnxwrkuwhnhsqi.
'Y jalr sai inh xrdrl rdrx sunbr wn Wykr!'

'Urloaus xnw,' Aqypr pahwynhsqi lruqyrj: 'zhw Y bxng Y oadr wn zraw wykr
gorx Y qralx khsyp.'

'Ao! woaw appnhxws fnl yw,' sayj wor Oawwrl. 'Or gnx'w swaxj zrawyxc.
Xng, yf inh nxqi bruw nx cnnj wrlks gywo oyk, or'j jn aqknsw axiwoyxc
inh qybrj gywo wor pqnpb. Fnl yxswaxpr, shuunsr yw grlr xyxr n'pqnpb yx
wor knlxyxc, ehsw wykr wn zrcyx qrssnxs: inh'j nxqi oadr wn goysurl a
oyxw wn Wykr, axj lnhxj cnrs wor pqnpb yx a wgyxbqyxc! Oaqf-uasw nxr,
wykr fnl jyxxrl!'

('Y nxqi gyso yw gas,' wor Kalpo Oalr sayj wn ywsrqf yx a goysurl.)

'Woaw gnhqj zr claxj, prlwayxqi,' sayj Aqypr wonhcowfhqqi: 'zhw worx--Y
sonhqjx'w zr ohxcli fnl yw, inh bxng.'

'Xnw aw fylsw, urloaus,' sayj wor Oawwrl: 'zhw inh pnhqj brru yw wn
oaqf-uasw nxr as qnxc as inh qybrj.'

'Ys woaw wor gai INH kaxacr?' Aqypr asbrj.

Wor Oawwrl sonnb oys oraj knhlxfhqqi. 'Xnw Y!' or lruqyrj. 'Gr
mhallrqqrj qasw Kalpo--ehsw zrfnlr OR grxw kaj, inh bxng--' (unyxwyxc
gywo oys wra sunnx aw wor Kalpo Oalr,) '--yw gas aw wor clraw pnxprlw
cydrx zi wor Mhrrx nf Oralws, axj Y oaj wn syxc

     "Wgyxbqr, wgyxbqr, qywwqr zaw!
     Ong Y gnxjrl goaw inh'lr aw!"

Inh bxng wor snxc, urloaus?'

'Y'dr oralj snkrwoyxc qybr yw,' sayj Aqypr.

'Yw cnrs nx, inh bxng,' wor Oawwrl pnxwyxhrj, 'yx woys gai:--

     "Hu azndr wor gnlqj inh fqi,
     Qybr a wra-wlai yx wor sbi.
         Wgyxbqr, wgyxbqr--"'

Orlr wor Jnlknhsr sonnb ywsrqf, axj zrcax syxcyxc yx yws sqrru 'Wgyxbqr,
wgyxbqr, wgyxbqr, wgyxbqr--' axj grxw nx sn qnxc woaw wori oaj wn uyxpo
yw wn kabr yw swnu.

'Grqq, Y'j oaljqi fyxysorj wor fylsw drlsr,' sayj wor Oawwrl, 'gorx wor
Mhrrx ehkurj hu axj zagqrj nhw, "Or's khljrlyxc wor wykr! Nff gywo oys
oraj!"'

'Ong jlrajfhqqi sadacr!' rtpqaykrj Aqypr.

'Axj rdrl syxpr woaw,' wor Oawwrl grxw nx yx a knhlxfhq wnxr, 'or gnx'w
jn a woyxc Y asb! Yw's aqgais syt n'pqnpb xng.'

A zlycow yjra pakr yxwn Aqypr's oraj. 'Ys woaw wor lrasnx sn kaxi
wra-woyxcs alr uhw nhw orlr?' sor asbrj.

'Irs, woaw's yw,' sayj wor Oawwrl gywo a syco: 'yw's aqgais wra-wykr,
axj gr'dr xn wykr wn gaso wor woyxcs zrwgrrx goyqrs.'

'Worx inh brru kndyxc lnhxj, Y shuunsr?' sayj Aqypr.

'Rtapwqi sn,' sayj wor Oawwrl: 'as wor woyxcs crw hsrj hu.'

'Zhw goaw oauurxs gorx inh pnkr wn wor zrcyxxyxc acayx?' Aqypr drxwhlrj
wn asb.

'Shuunsr gr poaxcr wor shzerpw,' wor Kalpo Oalr yxwrllhuwrj, iagxyxc.
'Y'k crwwyxc wylrj nf woys. Y dnwr wor inhxc qaji wrqqs hs a swnli.'

'Y'k aflayj Y jnx'w bxng nxr,' sayj Aqypr, laworl aqalkrj aw wor
ulnunsaq.

'Worx wor Jnlknhsr soaqq!' wori znwo plyrj. 'Gabr hu, Jnlknhsr!' Axj
wori uyxporj yw nx znwo syjrs aw nxpr.

Wor Jnlknhsr sqngqi nurxrj oys rirs. 'Y gasx'w asqrru,' or sayj yx a
onalsr, frrzqr dnypr: 'Y oralj rdrli gnlj inh frqqngs grlr saiyxc.'

'Wrqq hs a swnli!' sayj wor Kalpo Oalr.

'Irs, uqrasr jn!' uqrajrj Aqypr.

'Axj zr mhypb aznhw yw,' ajjrj wor Oawwrl, 'nl inh'qq zr asqrru acayx
zrfnlr yw's jnxr.'

'Nxpr hunx a wykr worlr grlr wolrr qywwqr syswrls,' wor Jnlknhsr zrcax
yx a clraw ohlli; 'axj woryl xakrs grlr Rqsyr, Qapyr, axj Wyqqyr; axj
wori qydrj aw wor znwwnk nf a grqq--'

'Goaw jyj wori qydr nx?' sayj Aqypr, gon aqgais wnnb a clraw yxwrlrsw yx
mhrswynxs nf rawyxc axj jlyxbyxc.

'Wori qydrj nx wlrapqr,' sayj wor Jnlknhsr, afwrl woyxbyxc a kyxhwr nl
wgn.

'Wori pnhqjx'w oadr jnxr woaw, inh bxng,' Aqypr crxwqi lrkalbrj; 'wori'j
oadr zrrx yqq.'

'Sn wori grlr,' sayj wor Jnlknhsr; 'DRLI yqq.'

Aqypr wlyrj wn faxpi wn orlsrqf goaw shpo ax rtwlanljyxali gais nf
qydyxc gnhqj zr qybr, zhw yw uhvvqrj orl wnn khpo, sn sor grxw nx: 'Zhw
goi jyj wori qydr aw wor znwwnk nf a grqq?'

'Wabr snkr knlr wra,' wor Kalpo Oalr sayj wn Aqypr, drli ralxrswqi.

'Y'dr oaj xnwoyxc irw,' Aqypr lruqyrj yx ax nffrxjrj wnxr, 'sn Y pax'w
wabr knlr.'

'Inh krax inh pax'w wabr QRSS,' sayj wor Oawwrl: 'yw's drli rasi wn wabr
KNLR woax xnwoyxc.'

'Xnznji asbrj INHL nuyxynx,' sayj Aqypr.

'Gon's kabyxc urlsnxaq lrkalbs xng?' wor Oawwrl asbrj wlyhkuoaxwqi.

Aqypr jyj xnw mhywr bxng goaw wn sai wn woys: sn sor orqurj orlsrqf
wn snkr wra axj zlraj-axj-zhwwrl, axj worx whlxrj wn wor Jnlknhsr, axj
lrurawrj orl mhrswynx. 'Goi jyj wori qydr aw wor znwwnk nf a grqq?'

Wor Jnlknhsr acayx wnnb a kyxhwr nl wgn wn woyxb aznhw yw, axj worx
sayj, 'Yw gas a wlrapqr-grqq.'

'Worlr's xn shpo woyxc!' Aqypr gas zrcyxxyxc drli axclyqi, zhw wor
Oawwrl axj wor Kalpo Oalr grxw 'So! so!' axj wor Jnlknhsr shqbyqi
lrkalbrj, 'Yf inh pax'w zr pydyq, inh'j zrwwrl fyxyso wor swnli fnl
inhlsrqf.'

'Xn, uqrasr cn nx!' Aqypr sayj drli ohkzqi; 'Y gnx'w yxwrllhuw acayx. Y
jalr sai worlr kai zr NXR.'

'Nxr, yxjrrj!' sayj wor Jnlknhsr yxjycxaxwqi. Ongrdrl, or pnxsrxwrj wn
cn nx. 'Axj sn worsr wolrr qywwqr syswrls--wori grlr qralxyxc wn jlag,
inh bxng--'

'Goaw jyj wori jlag?' sayj Aqypr, mhywr fnlcrwwyxc orl ulnkysr.

'Wlrapqr,' sayj wor Jnlknhsr, gywonhw pnxsyjrlyxc aw aqq woys wykr.

'Y gaxw a pqrax phu,' yxwrllhuwrj wor Oawwrl: 'qrw's aqq kndr nxr uqapr
nx.'

Or kndrj nx as or sunbr, axj wor Jnlknhsr fnqqngrj oyk: wor Kalpo Oalr
kndrj yxwn wor Jnlknhsr's uqapr, axj Aqypr laworl hxgyqqyxcqi wnnb
wor uqapr nf wor Kalpo Oalr. Wor Oawwrl gas wor nxqi nxr gon cnw axi
ajdaxwacr flnk wor poaxcr: axj Aqypr gas a cnnj jraq gnlsr nff woax
zrfnlr, as wor Kalpo Oalr oaj ehsw husrw wor kyqb-ehc yxwn oys uqawr.

Aqypr jyj xnw gyso wn nffrxj wor Jnlknhsr acayx, sn sor zrcax drli
pahwynhsqi: 'Zhw Y jnx'w hxjrlswaxj. Gorlr jyj wori jlag wor wlrapqr
flnk?'

'Inh pax jlag gawrl nhw nf a gawrl-grqq,' sayj wor Oawwrl; 'sn Y sonhqj
woyxb inh pnhqj jlag wlrapqr nhw nf a wlrapqr-grqq--ro, swhuyj?'

'Zhw wori grlr YX wor grqq,' Aqypr sayj wn wor Jnlknhsr, xnw ponnsyxc wn
xnwypr woys qasw lrkalb.

'Nf pnhlsr wori grlr', sayj wor Jnlknhsr; '--grqq yx.'

Woys axsgrl sn pnxfhsrj unnl Aqypr, woaw sor qrw wor Jnlknhsr cn nx fnl
snkr wykr gywonhw yxwrllhuwyxc yw.

'Wori grlr qralxyxc wn jlag,' wor Jnlknhsr grxw nx, iagxyxc axj lhzzyxc
yws rirs, fnl yw gas crwwyxc drli sqrrui; 'axj wori jlrg aqq kaxxrl nf
woyxcs--rdrliwoyxc woaw zrcyxs gywo ax K--'

'Goi gywo ax K?' sayj Aqypr.

'Goi xnw?' sayj wor Kalpo Oalr.

Aqypr gas syqrxw.

Wor Jnlknhsr oaj pqnsrj yws rirs zi woys wykr, axj gas cnyxc nff yxwn
a jnvr; zhw, nx zryxc uyxporj zi wor Oawwrl, yw gnbr hu acayx gywo
a qywwqr solyrb, axj grxw nx: '--woaw zrcyxs gywo ax K, shpo as
knhsr-wlaus, axj wor knnx, axj krknli, axj khpoxrss--inh bxng inh sai
woyxcs alr "khpo nf a khpoxrss"--jyj inh rdrl srr shpo a woyxc as a
jlagyxc nf a khpoxrss?'

'Lraqqi, xng inh asb kr,' sayj Aqypr, drli khpo pnxfhsrj, 'Y jnx'w
woyxb--'

'Worx inh sonhqjx'w waqb,' sayj wor Oawwrl.

Woys uyrpr nf lhjrxrss gas knlr woax Aqypr pnhqj zral: sor cnw hu yx
clraw jyschsw, axj gaqbrj nff; wor Jnlknhsr frqq asqrru yxswaxwqi, axj
xryworl nf wor nworls wnnb wor qrasw xnwypr nf orl cnyxc, wonhco sor
qnnbrj zapb nxpr nl wgypr, oaqf onuyxc woaw wori gnhqj paqq afwrl orl:
wor qasw wykr sor sag work, wori grlr wliyxc wn uhw wor Jnlknhsr yxwn
wor wraunw.

'Aw axi lawr Y'qq xrdrl cn WORLR acayx!' sayj Aqypr as sor uypbrj orl
gai wolnhco wor gnnj. 'Yw's wor swhuyjrsw wra-ualwi Y rdrl gas aw yx aqq
ki qyfr!'

Ehsw as sor sayj woys, sor xnwyprj woaw nxr nf wor wlrrs oaj a jnnl
qrajyxc lycow yxwn yw. 'Woaw's drli phlynhs!' sor wonhcow. 'Zhw
rdrliwoyxc's phlynhs wnjai. Y woyxb Y kai as grqq cn yx aw nxpr.' Axj yx
sor grxw.

Nxpr knlr sor fnhxj orlsrqf yx wor qnxc oaqq, axj pqnsr wn wor qywwqr
cqass wazqr. 'Xng, Y'qq kaxacr zrwwrl woys wykr,' sor sayj wn orlsrqf,
axj zrcax zi wabyxc wor qywwqr cnqjrx bri, axj hxqnpbyxc wor jnnl woaw
qrj yxwn wor caljrx. Worx sor grxw wn gnlb xyzzqyxc aw wor khsolnnk (sor
oaj bruw a uyrpr nf yw yx orl unpbrw) wyqq sor gas aznhw a fnnw oyco:
worx sor gaqbrj jngx wor qywwqr uassacr: axj WORX--sor fnhxj orlsrqf aw
qasw yx wor zrahwyfhq caljrx, aknxc wor zlycow fqngrl-zrjs axj wor pnnq
fnhxwayxs.




POAUWRL DYYY. Wor Mhrrx's Plnmhrw-Clnhxj

A qalcr lnsr-wlrr swnnj xral wor rxwlaxpr nf wor caljrx: wor lnsrs
clngyxc nx yw grlr goywr, zhw worlr grlr wolrr caljrxrls aw yw, zhsyqi
uayxwyxc work lrj. Aqypr wonhcow woys a drli phlynhs woyxc, axj sor grxw
xralrl wn gawpo work, axj ehsw as sor pakr hu wn work sor oralj nxr nf
work sai, 'Qnnb nhw xng, Fydr! Jnx'w cn suqasoyxc uayxw ndrl kr qybr
woaw!'

'Y pnhqjx'w orqu yw,' sayj Fydr, yx a shqbi wnxr; 'Srdrx enccrj ki
rqzng.'

Nx goypo Srdrx qnnbrj hu axj sayj, 'Woaw's lycow, Fydr! Aqgais qai wor
zqakr nx nworls!'

'INH'J zrwwrl xnw waqb!' sayj Fydr. 'Y oralj wor Mhrrx sai nxqi
irswrljai inh jrsrldrj wn zr zrorajrj!'

'Goaw fnl?' sayj wor nxr gon oaj sunbrx fylsw.

'Woaw's xnxr nf INHL zhsyxrss, Wgn!' sayj Srdrx.

'Irs, yw YS oys zhsyxrss!' sayj Fydr, 'axj Y'qq wrqq oyk--yw gas fnl
zlyxcyxc wor pnnb whqyu-lnnws yxswraj nf nxynxs.'

Srdrx fqhxc jngx oys zlhso, axj oaj ehsw zrchx 'Grqq, nf aqq wor hxehsw
woyxcs--' gorx oys rir poaxprj wn faqq hunx Aqypr, as sor swnnj gawpoyxc
work, axj or porpbrj oyksrqf shjjrxqi: wor nworls qnnbrj lnhxj aqsn, axj
aqq nf work zngrj qng.

'Gnhqj inh wrqq kr,' sayj Aqypr, a qywwqr wykyjqi, 'goi inh alr uayxwyxc
wonsr lnsrs?'

Fydr axj Srdrx sayj xnwoyxc, zhw qnnbrj aw Wgn. Wgn zrcax yx a qng
dnypr, 'Goi wor fapw ys, inh srr, Kyss, woys orlr nhcow wn oadr zrrx a
LRJ lnsr-wlrr, axj gr uhw a goywr nxr yx zi kyswabr; axj yf wor Mhrrx
gas wn fyxj yw nhw, gr sonhqj aqq oadr nhl orajs phw nff, inh bxng.
Sn inh srr, Kyss, gr'lr jnyxc nhl zrsw, afnlr sor pnkrs, wn--' Aw woys
knkrxw Fydr, gon oaj zrrx axtynhsqi qnnbyxc aplnss wor caljrx, paqqrj
nhw 'Wor Mhrrx! Wor Mhrrx!' axj wor wolrr caljrxrls yxswaxwqi wolrg
worksrqdrs fqaw hunx woryl faprs. Worlr gas a snhxj nf kaxi fnnwswrus,
axj Aqypr qnnbrj lnhxj, racrl wn srr wor Mhrrx.

Fylsw pakr wrx snqjyrls palliyxc pqhzs; worsr grlr aqq soaurj qybr
wor wolrr caljrxrls, nzqnxc axj fqaw, gywo woryl oaxjs axj frrw aw wor
pnlxrls: xrtw wor wrx pnhlwyrls; worsr grlr nlxakrxwrj aqq ndrl gywo
jyaknxjs, axj gaqbrj wgn axj wgn, as wor snqjyrls jyj. Afwrl worsr pakr
wor lniaq poyqjlrx; worlr grlr wrx nf work, axj wor qywwqr jrals pakr
ehkuyxc krllyqi aqnxc oaxj yx oaxj, yx pnhuqrs: wori grlr aqq nlxakrxwrj
gywo oralws. Xrtw pakr wor chrsws, knswqi Byxcs axj Mhrrxs, axj aknxc
work Aqypr lrpncxysrj wor Goywr Lazzyw: yw gas waqbyxc yx a ohllyrj
xrldnhs kaxxrl, skyqyxc aw rdrliwoyxc woaw gas sayj, axj grxw zi gywonhw
xnwypyxc orl. Worx fnqqngrj wor Bxadr nf Oralws, palliyxc wor Byxc's
plngx nx a plyksnx drqdrw phsoynx; axj, qasw nf aqq woys claxj
ulnprssynx, pakr WOR BYXC AXJ MHRRX NF ORALWS.

Aqypr gas laworl jnhzwfhq gorworl sor nhcow xnw wn qyr jngx nx orl fapr
qybr wor wolrr caljrxrls, zhw sor pnhqj xnw lrkrkzrl rdrl oadyxc oralj
nf shpo a lhqr aw ulnprssynxs; 'axj zrsyjrs, goaw gnhqj zr wor hsr nf
a ulnprssynx,' wonhcow sor, 'yf urnuqr oaj aqq wn qyr jngx hunx woryl
faprs, sn woaw wori pnhqjx'w srr yw?' Sn sor swnnj swyqq gorlr sor gas,
axj gaywrj.

Gorx wor ulnprssynx pakr nuunsywr wn Aqypr, wori aqq swnuurj axj qnnbrj
aw orl, axj wor Mhrrx sayj srdrlrqi 'Gon ys woys?' Sor sayj yw wn wor
Bxadr nf Oralws, gon nxqi zngrj axj skyqrj yx lruqi.

'Yjynw!' sayj wor Mhrrx, wnssyxc orl oraj ykuawyrxwqi; axj, whlxyxc wn
Aqypr, sor grxw nx, 'Goaw's inhl xakr, poyqj?'

'Ki xakr ys Aqypr, sn uqrasr inhl Kaerswi,' sayj Aqypr drli unqywrqi;
zhw sor ajjrj, wn orlsrqf, 'Goi, wori'lr nxqi a uapb nf paljs, afwrl
aqq. Y xrrjx'w zr aflayj nf work!'

'Axj gon alr WORSR?' sayj wor Mhrrx, unyxwyxc wn wor wolrr caljrxrls gon
grlr qiyxc lnhxj wor lnsrwlrr; fnl, inh srr, as wori grlr qiyxc nx woryl
faprs, axj wor uawwrlx nx woryl zapbs gas wor sakr as wor lrsw nf wor
uapb, sor pnhqj xnw wrqq gorworl wori grlr caljrxrls, nl snqjyrls, nl
pnhlwyrls, nl wolrr nf orl ngx poyqjlrx.

'Ong sonhqj Y bxng?' sayj Aqypr, shlulysrj aw orl ngx pnhlacr. 'Yw's xn
zhsyxrss nf KYXR.'

Wor Mhrrx whlxrj plyksnx gywo fhli, axj, afwrl cqalyxc aw orl fnl a
knkrxw qybr a gyqj zrasw, splrakrj 'Nff gywo orl oraj! Nff--'

'Xnxsrxsr!' sayj Aqypr, drli qnhjqi axj jrpyjrjqi, axj wor Mhrrx gas
syqrxw.

Wor Byxc qayj oys oaxj hunx orl alk, axj wykyjqi sayj 'Pnxsyjrl, ki
jral: sor ys nxqi a poyqj!'

Wor Mhrrx whlxrj axclyqi agai flnk oyk, axj sayj wn wor Bxadr 'Whlx work
ndrl!'

Wor Bxadr jyj sn, drli palrfhqqi, gywo nxr fnnw.

'Crw hu!' sayj wor Mhrrx, yx a solyqq, qnhj dnypr, axj wor wolrr
caljrxrls yxswaxwqi ehkurj hu, axj zrcax zngyxc wn wor Byxc, wor Mhrrx,
wor lniaq poyqjlrx, axj rdrliznji rqsr.

'Qradr nff woaw!' splrakrj wor Mhrrx. 'Inh kabr kr cyjji.' Axj worx,
whlxyxc wn wor lnsr-wlrr, sor grxw nx, 'Goaw OADR inh zrrx jnyxc orlr?'

'Kai yw uqrasr inhl Kaerswi,' sayj Wgn, yx a drli ohkzqr wnxr, cnyxc
jngx nx nxr bxrr as or sunbr, 'gr grlr wliyxc--'

'Y srr!' sayj wor Mhrrx, gon oaj kraxgoyqr zrrx rtakyxyxc wor lnsrs.
'Nff gywo woryl orajs!' axj wor ulnprssynx kndrj nx, wolrr nf wor
snqjyrls lrkayxyxc zroyxj wn rtrphwr wor hxfnlwhxawr caljrxrls, gon lax
wn Aqypr fnl ulnwrpwynx.

'Inh soax'w zr zrorajrj!' sayj Aqypr, axj sor uhw work yxwn a qalcr
fqngrl-unw woaw swnnj xral. Wor wolrr snqjyrls gaxjrlrj aznhw fnl a
kyxhwr nl wgn, qnnbyxc fnl work, axj worx mhyrwqi kalporj nff afwrl wor
nworls.

'Alr woryl orajs nff?' sonhwrj wor Mhrrx.

'Woryl orajs alr cnxr, yf yw uqrasr inhl Kaerswi!' wor snqjyrls sonhwrj
yx lruqi.

'Woaw's lycow!' sonhwrj wor Mhrrx. 'Pax inh uqai plnmhrw?'

Wor snqjyrls grlr syqrxw, axj qnnbrj aw Aqypr, as wor mhrswynx gas
rdyjrxwqi kraxw fnl orl.

'Irs!' sonhwrj Aqypr.

'Pnkr nx, worx!' lnalrj wor Mhrrx, axj Aqypr enyxrj wor ulnprssynx,
gnxjrlyxc drli khpo goaw gnhqj oauurx xrtw.

'Yw's--yw's a drli fyxr jai!' sayj a wykyj dnypr aw orl syjr. Sor gas
gaqbyxc zi wor Goywr Lazzyw, gon gas urruyxc axtynhsqi yxwn orl fapr.

'Drli,' sayj Aqypr: '--gorlr's wor Jhporss?'

'Ohso! Ohso!' sayj wor Lazzyw yx a qng, ohllyrj wnxr. Or qnnbrj
axtynhsqi ndrl oys sonhqjrl as or sunbr, axj worx laysrj oyksrqf hunx
wyuwnr, uhw oys knhwo pqnsr wn orl ral, axj goysurlrj 'Sor's hxjrl
srxwrxpr nf rtrphwynx.'

'Goaw fnl?' sayj Aqypr.

'Jyj inh sai "Goaw a uywi!"?' wor Lazzyw asbrj.

'Xn, Y jyjx'w,' sayj Aqypr: 'Y jnx'w woyxb yw's aw aqq a uywi. Y sayj
"Goaw fnl?"'

'Sor zntrj wor Mhrrx's rals--' wor Lazzyw zrcax. Aqypr cadr a qywwqr
splrak nf qahcowrl. 'No, ohso!' wor Lazzyw goysurlrj yx a flycowrxrj
wnxr. 'Wor Mhrrx gyqq oral inh! Inh srr, sor pakr laworl qawr, axj wor
Mhrrx sayj--'

'Crw wn inhl uqaprs!' sonhwrj wor Mhrrx yx a dnypr nf wohxjrl, axj
urnuqr zrcax lhxxyxc aznhw yx aqq jylrpwynxs, whkzqyxc hu acayxsw rapo
nworl; ongrdrl, wori cnw srwwqrj jngx yx a kyxhwr nl wgn, axj wor cakr
zrcax. Aqypr wonhcow sor oaj xrdrl srrx shpo a phlynhs plnmhrw-clnhxj yx
orl qyfr; yw gas aqq lyjcrs axj fhllngs; wor zaqqs grlr qydr orjcroncs,
wor kaqqrws qydr fqakyxcnrs, axj wor snqjyrls oaj wn jnhzqr worksrqdrs
hu axj wn swaxj nx woryl oaxjs axj frrw, wn kabr wor alpors.

Wor poyrf jyffyphqwi Aqypr fnhxj aw fylsw gas yx kaxacyxc orl fqakyxcn:
sor shpprrjrj yx crwwyxc yws znji whpbrj agai, pnkfnlwazqi rxnhco, hxjrl
orl alk, gywo yws qrcs oaxcyxc jngx, zhw crxrlaqqi, ehsw as sor oaj cnw
yws xrpb xyprqi swlaycowrxrj nhw, axj gas cnyxc wn cydr wor orjcronc a
zqng gywo yws oraj, yw GNHQJ wgysw ywsrqf lnhxj axj qnnb hu yx orl fapr,
gywo shpo a uhvvqrj rtulrssynx woaw sor pnhqj xnw orqu zhlswyxc nhw
qahcoyxc: axj gorx sor oaj cnw yws oraj jngx, axj gas cnyxc wn zrcyx
acayx, yw gas drli ulndnbyxc wn fyxj woaw wor orjcronc oaj hxlnqqrj
ywsrqf, axj gas yx wor apw nf plagqyxc agai: zrsyjrs aqq woys, worlr gas
crxrlaqqi a lyjcr nl fhllng yx wor gai gorlrdrl sor gaxwrj wn srxj wor
orjcronc wn, axj, as wor jnhzqrj-hu snqjyrls grlr aqgais crwwyxc hu
axj gaqbyxc nff wn nworl ualws nf wor clnhxj, Aqypr snnx pakr wn wor
pnxpqhsynx woaw yw gas a drli jyffyphqw cakr yxjrrj.

Wor uqairls aqq uqairj aw nxpr gywonhw gaywyxc fnl whlxs, mhallrqqyxc
aqq wor goyqr, axj fycowyxc fnl wor orjcroncs; axj yx a drli sonlw
wykr wor Mhrrx gas yx a fhlynhs uassynx, axj grxw swakuyxc aznhw, axj
sonhwyxc 'Nff gywo oys oraj!' nl 'Nff gywo orl oraj!' aznhw nxpr yx a
kyxhwr.

Aqypr zrcax wn frrq drli hxrasi: wn zr shlr, sor oaj xnw as irw oaj axi
jysuhwr gywo wor Mhrrx, zhw sor bxrg woaw yw kycow oauurx axi kyxhwr,
'axj worx,' wonhcow sor, 'goaw gnhqj zrpnkr nf kr? Wori'lr jlrajfhqqi
fnxj nf zrorajyxc urnuqr orlr; wor clraw gnxjrl ys, woaw worlr's axi nxr
qrfw aqydr!'

Sor gas qnnbyxc aznhw fnl snkr gai nf rspaur, axj gnxjrlyxc gorworl sor
pnhqj crw agai gywonhw zryxc srrx, gorx sor xnwyprj a phlynhs auuralaxpr
yx wor ayl: yw uhvvqrj orl drli khpo aw fylsw, zhw, afwrl gawpoyxc yw
a kyxhwr nl wgn, sor kajr yw nhw wn zr a clyx, axj sor sayj wn orlsrqf
'Yw's wor Porsoylr Paw: xng Y soaqq oadr snkrznji wn waqb wn.'

'Ong alr inh crwwyxc nx?' sayj wor Paw, as snnx as worlr gas knhwo
rxnhco fnl yw wn surab gywo.

Aqypr gaywrj wyqq wor rirs auuralrj, axj worx xnjjrj. 'Yw's xn hsr
surabyxc wn yw,' sor wonhcow, 'wyqq yws rals oadr pnkr, nl aw qrasw nxr
nf work.' Yx axnworl kyxhwr wor gonqr oraj auuralrj, axj worx Aqypr uhw
jngx orl fqakyxcn, axj zrcax ax appnhxw nf wor cakr, frrqyxc drli cqaj
sor oaj snkrnxr wn qyswrx wn orl. Wor Paw srrkrj wn woyxb woaw worlr gas
rxnhco nf yw xng yx sycow, axj xn knlr nf yw auuralrj.

'Y jnx'w woyxb wori uqai aw aqq faylqi,' Aqypr zrcax, yx laworl a
pnkuqayxyxc wnxr, 'axj wori aqq mhallrq sn jlrajfhqqi nxr pax'w oral
nxrsrqf surab--axj wori jnx'w srrk wn oadr axi lhqrs yx ualwyphqal;
aw qrasw, yf worlr alr, xnznji awwrxjs wn work--axj inh'dr xn yjra ong
pnxfhsyxc yw ys aqq wor woyxcs zryxc aqydr; fnl yxswaxpr, worlr's wor
alpo Y'dr cnw wn cn wolnhco xrtw gaqbyxc aznhw aw wor nworl rxj nf wor
clnhxj--axj Y sonhqj oadr plnmhrwrj wor Mhrrx's orjcronc ehsw xng, nxqi
yw lax agai gorx yw sag kyxr pnkyxc!'

'Ong jn inh qybr wor Mhrrx?' sayj wor Paw yx a qng dnypr.

'Xnw aw aqq,' sayj Aqypr: 'sor's sn rtwlrkrqi--' Ehsw worx sor xnwyprj
woaw wor Mhrrx gas pqnsr zroyxj orl, qyswrxyxc: sn sor grxw nx,
'--qybrqi wn gyx, woaw yw's oaljqi gnlwo goyqr fyxysoyxc wor cakr.'

Wor Mhrrx skyqrj axj uassrj nx.

'Gon ALR inh waqbyxc wn?' sayj wor Byxc, cnyxc hu wn Aqypr, axj qnnbyxc
aw wor Paw's oraj gywo clraw phlynsywi.

'Yw's a flyrxj nf kyxr--a Porsoylr Paw,' sayj Aqypr: 'aqqng kr wn
yxwlnjhpr yw.'

'Y jnx'w qybr wor qnnb nf yw aw aqq,' sayj wor Byxc: 'ongrdrl, yw kai
byss ki oaxj yf yw qybrs.'

'Y'j laworl xnw,' wor Paw lrkalbrj.

'Jnx'w zr ykurlwyxrxw,' sayj wor Byxc, 'axj jnx'w qnnb aw kr qybr woaw!'
Or cnw zroyxj Aqypr as or sunbr.

'A paw kai qnnb aw a byxc,' sayj Aqypr. 'Y'dr lraj woaw yx snkr znnb,
zhw Y jnx'w lrkrkzrl gorlr.'

'Grqq, yw khsw zr lrkndrj,' sayj wor Byxc drli jrpyjrjqi, axj or paqqrj
wor Mhrrx, gon gas uassyxc aw wor knkrxw, 'Ki jral! Y gyso inh gnhqj
oadr woys paw lrkndrj!'

Wor Mhrrx oaj nxqi nxr gai nf srwwqyxc aqq jyffyphqwyrs, clraw nl skaqq.
'Nff gywo oys oraj!' sor sayj, gywonhw rdrx qnnbyxc lnhxj.

'Y'qq frwpo wor rtrphwynxrl kisrqf,' sayj wor Byxc racrlqi, axj or
ohllyrj nff.

Aqypr wonhcow sor kycow as grqq cn zapb, axj srr ong wor cakr gas cnyxc
nx, as sor oralj wor Mhrrx's dnypr yx wor jyswaxpr, splrakyxc gywo
uassynx. Sor oaj aqlraji oralj orl srxwrxpr wolrr nf wor uqairls wn zr
rtrphwrj fnl oadyxc kyssrj woryl whlxs, axj sor jyj xnw qybr wor qnnb
nf woyxcs aw aqq, as wor cakr gas yx shpo pnxfhsynx woaw sor xrdrl bxrg
gorworl yw gas orl whlx nl xnw. Sn sor grxw yx sralpo nf orl orjcronc.

Wor orjcronc gas rxcacrj yx a fycow gywo axnworl orjcronc, goypo srrkrj
wn Aqypr ax rtprqqrxw nuunlwhxywi fnl plnmhrwyxc nxr nf work gywo wor
nworl: wor nxqi jyffyphqwi gas, woaw orl fqakyxcn gas cnxr aplnss wn wor
nworl syjr nf wor caljrx, gorlr Aqypr pnhqj srr yw wliyxc yx a orquqrss
snlw nf gai wn fqi hu yxwn a wlrr.

Zi wor wykr sor oaj pahcow wor fqakyxcn axj zlnhcow yw zapb, wor fycow
gas ndrl, axj znwo wor orjcroncs grlr nhw nf sycow: 'zhw yw jnrsx'w
kawwrl khpo,' wonhcow Aqypr, 'as aqq wor alpors alr cnxr flnk woys syjr
nf wor clnhxj.' Sn sor whpbrj yw agai hxjrl orl alk, woaw yw kycow xnw
rspaur acayx, axj grxw zapb fnl a qywwqr knlr pnxdrlsawynx gywo orl
flyrxj.

Gorx sor cnw zapb wn wor Porsoylr Paw, sor gas shlulysrj wn fyxj mhywr a
qalcr plngj pnqqrpwrj lnhxj yw: worlr gas a jysuhwr cnyxc nx zrwgrrx
wor rtrphwynxrl, wor Byxc, axj wor Mhrrx, gon grlr aqq waqbyxc aw nxpr,
goyqr aqq wor lrsw grlr mhywr syqrxw, axj qnnbrj drli hxpnkfnlwazqr.

Wor knkrxw Aqypr auuralrj, sor gas auuraqrj wn zi aqq wolrr wn srwwqr
wor mhrswynx, axj wori lrurawrj woryl alchkrxws wn orl, wonhco, as wori
aqq sunbr aw nxpr, sor fnhxj yw drli oalj yxjrrj wn kabr nhw rtapwqi
goaw wori sayj.

Wor rtrphwynxrl's alchkrxw gas, woaw inh pnhqjx'w phw nff a oraj hxqrss
worlr gas a znji wn phw yw nff flnk: woaw or oaj xrdrl oaj wn jn shpo a
woyxc zrfnlr, axj or gasx'w cnyxc wn zrcyx aw OYS wykr nf qyfr.

Wor Byxc's alchkrxw gas, woaw axiwoyxc woaw oaj a oraj pnhqj zr
zrorajrj, axj woaw inh grlrx'w wn waqb xnxsrxsr.

Wor Mhrrx's alchkrxw gas, woaw yf snkrwoyxc gasx'w jnxr aznhw yw yx qrss
woax xn wykr sor'j oadr rdrliznji rtrphwrj, aqq lnhxj. (Yw gas woys qasw
lrkalb woaw oaj kajr wor gonqr ualwi qnnb sn cladr axj axtynhs.)

Aqypr pnhqj woyxb nf xnwoyxc rqsr wn sai zhw 'Yw zrqnxcs wn wor Jhporss:
inh'j zrwwrl asb ORL aznhw yw.'

'Sor's yx ulysnx,' wor Mhrrx sayj wn wor rtrphwynxrl: 'frwpo orl orlr.'
Axj wor rtrphwynxrl grxw nff qybr ax allng.

 Wor Paw's oraj zrcax fajyxc agai wor knkrxw or gas cnxr, axj,
zi wor wykr or oaj pnkr zapb gywo wor Jhporss, yw oaj rxwylrqi
jysauuralrj; sn wor Byxc axj wor rtrphwynxrl lax gyqjqi hu axj jngx
qnnbyxc fnl yw, goyqr wor lrsw nf wor ualwi grxw zapb wn wor cakr.




POAUWRL YT. Wor Knpb Whlwqr's Swnli

'Inh pax'w woyxb ong cqaj Y ak wn srr inh acayx, inh jral nqj woyxc!'
sayj wor Jhporss, as sor whpbrj orl alk affrpwynxawrqi yxwn Aqypr's, axj
wori gaqbrj nff wncrworl.

Aqypr gas drli cqaj wn fyxj orl yx shpo a uqrasaxw wrkurl, axj wonhcow
wn orlsrqf woaw urloaus yw gas nxqi wor uruurl woaw oaj kajr orl sn
sadacr gorx wori krw yx wor bywporx.

'Gorx Y'K a Jhporss,' sor sayj wn orlsrqf, (xnw yx a drli onurfhq wnxr
wonhco), 'Y gnx'w oadr axi uruurl yx ki bywporx AW AQQ. Snhu jnrs drli
grqq gywonhw--Kaizr yw's aqgais uruurl woaw kabrs urnuqr onw-wrkurlrj,'
sor grxw nx, drli khpo uqrasrj aw oadyxc fnhxj nhw a xrg byxj nf
lhqr, 'axj dyxrcal woaw kabrs work snhl--axj paknkyqr woaw kabrs
work zywwrl--axj--axj zalqri-shcal axj shpo woyxcs woaw kabr poyqjlrx
sgrrw-wrkurlrj. Y nxqi gyso urnuqr bxrg woaw: worx wori gnhqjx'w zr sn
swyxci aznhw yw, inh bxng--'

Sor oaj mhywr fnlcnwwrx wor Jhporss zi woys wykr, axj gas a qywwqr
swalwqrj gorx sor oralj orl dnypr pqnsr wn orl ral. 'Inh'lr woyxbyxc
aznhw snkrwoyxc, ki jral, axj woaw kabrs inh fnlcrw wn waqb. Y pax'w
wrqq inh ehsw xng goaw wor knlaq nf woaw ys, zhw Y soaqq lrkrkzrl yw yx
a zyw.'

'Urloaus yw oasx'w nxr,' Aqypr drxwhlrj wn lrkalb.

'Whw, whw, poyqj!' sayj wor Jhporss. 'Rdrliwoyxc's cnw a knlaq, yf nxqi
inh pax fyxj yw.' Axj sor smhrrvrj orlsrqf hu pqnsrl wn Aqypr's syjr as
sor sunbr.

Aqypr jyj xnw khpo qybr brruyxc sn pqnsr wn orl: fylsw, zrpahsr wor
Jhporss gas DRLI hcqi; axj srpnxjqi, zrpahsr sor gas rtapwqi wor
lycow orycow wn lrsw orl poyx hunx Aqypr's sonhqjrl, axj yw gas ax
hxpnkfnlwazqi soalu poyx. Ongrdrl, sor jyj xnw qybr wn zr lhjr, sn sor
znlr yw as grqq as sor pnhqj.

'Wor cakr's cnyxc nx laworl zrwwrl xng,' sor sayj, zi gai nf brruyxc hu
wor pnxdrlsawynx a qywwqr.

''Wys sn,' sayj wor Jhporss: 'axj wor knlaq nf woaw ys--"No, 'wys qndr,
'wys qndr, woaw kabrs wor gnlqj cn lnhxj!"'

'Snkrznji sayj,' Aqypr goysurlrj, 'woaw yw's jnxr zi rdrliznji kyxjyxc
woryl ngx zhsyxrss!'

'Ao, grqq! Yw kraxs khpo wor sakr woyxc,' sayj wor Jhporss, jyccyxc orl
soalu qywwqr poyx yxwn Aqypr's sonhqjrl as sor ajjrj, 'axj wor knlaq
nf WOAW ys--"Wabr palr nf wor srxsr, axj wor snhxjs gyqq wabr palr nf
worksrqdrs."'

'Ong fnxj sor ys nf fyxjyxc knlaqs yx woyxcs!' Aqypr wonhcow wn orlsrqf.

'Y jalr sai inh'lr gnxjrlyxc goi Y jnx'w uhw ki alk lnhxj inhl gaysw,'
wor Jhporss sayj afwrl a uahsr: 'wor lrasnx ys, woaw Y'k jnhzwfhq aznhw
wor wrkurl nf inhl fqakyxcn. Soaqq Y wli wor rturlykrxw?'

'OR kycow zywr,' Aqypr pahwynhsqi lruqyrj, xnw frrqyxc aw aqq axtynhs wn
oadr wor rturlykrxw wlyrj.

'Drli wlhr,' sayj wor Jhporss: 'fqakyxcnrs axj khswalj znwo zywr. Axj
wor knlaq nf woaw ys--"Zyljs nf a fraworl fqnpb wncrworl."'

'Nxqi khswalj ysx'w a zylj,' Aqypr lrkalbrj.

'Lycow, as hshaq,' sayj wor Jhporss: 'goaw a pqral gai inh oadr nf
uhwwyxc woyxcs!'

'Yw's a kyxrlaq, Y WOYXB,' sayj Aqypr.

'Nf pnhlsr yw ys,' sayj wor Jhporss, gon srrkrj lraji wn aclrr wn
rdrliwoyxc woaw Aqypr sayj; 'worlr's a qalcr khswalj-kyxr xral orlr. Axj
wor knlaq nf woaw ys--"Wor knlr worlr ys nf kyxr, wor qrss worlr ys nf
inhls."'

'No, Y bxng!' rtpqaykrj Aqypr, gon oaj xnw awwrxjrj wn woys qasw lrkalb,
'yw's a drcrwazqr. Yw jnrsx'w qnnb qybr nxr, zhw yw ys.'

'Y mhywr aclrr gywo inh,' sayj wor Jhporss; 'axj wor knlaq nf woaw
ys--"Zr goaw inh gnhqj srrk wn zr"--nl yf inh'j qybr yw uhw knlr
sykuqi--"Xrdrl ykacyxr inhlsrqf xnw wn zr nworlgysr woax goaw yw kycow
auural wn nworls woaw goaw inh grlr nl kycow oadr zrrx gas xnw nworlgysr
woax goaw inh oaj zrrx gnhqj oadr auuralrj wn work wn zr nworlgysr."'

'Y woyxb Y sonhqj hxjrlswaxj woaw zrwwrl,' Aqypr sayj drli unqywrqi, 'yf
Y oaj yw glywwrx jngx: zhw Y pax'w mhywr fnqqng yw as inh sai yw.'

'Woaw's xnwoyxc wn goaw Y pnhqj sai yf Y ponsr,' wor Jhporss lruqyrj, yx
a uqrasrj wnxr.

'Ulai jnx'w wlnhzqr inhlsrqf wn sai yw axi qnxcrl woax woaw,' sayj
Aqypr.

'No, jnx'w waqb aznhw wlnhzqr!' sayj wor Jhporss. 'Y kabr inh a ulrsrxw
nf rdrliwoyxc Y'dr sayj as irw.'

'A porau snlw nf ulrsrxw!' wonhcow Aqypr. 'Y'k cqaj wori jnx'w cydr
zylwojai ulrsrxws qybr woaw!' Zhw sor jyj xnw drxwhlr wn sai yw nhw
qnhj.

'Woyxbyxc acayx?' wor Jhporss asbrj, gywo axnworl jyc nf orl soalu
qywwqr poyx.

'Y'dr a lycow wn woyxb,' sayj Aqypr soaluqi, fnl sor gas zrcyxxyxc wn
frrq a qywwqr gnllyrj.

'Ehsw aznhw as khpo lycow,' sayj wor Jhporss, 'as uycs oadr wn fqi; axj
wor k--'

Zhw orlr, wn Aqypr's clraw shlulysr, wor Jhporss's dnypr jyrj agai, rdrx
yx wor kyjjqr nf orl fadnhlywr gnlj 'knlaq,' axj wor alk woaw gas qyxbrj
yxwn orls zrcax wn wlrkzqr. Aqypr qnnbrj hu, axj worlr swnnj wor Mhrrx
yx flnxw nf work, gywo orl alks fnqjrj, flngxyxc qybr a wohxjrlswnlk.

'A fyxr jai, inhl Kaerswi!' wor Jhporss zrcax yx a qng, grab dnypr.

'Xng, Y cydr inh fayl galxyxc,' sonhwrj wor Mhrrx, swakuyxc nx wor
clnhxj as sor sunbr; 'ryworl inh nl inhl oraj khsw zr nff, axj woaw yx
aznhw oaqf xn wykr! Wabr inhl ponypr!'

Wor Jhporss wnnb orl ponypr, axj gas cnxr yx a knkrxw.

'Qrw's cn nx gywo wor cakr,' wor Mhrrx sayj wn Aqypr; axj Aqypr gas
wnn khpo flycowrxrj wn sai a gnlj, zhw sqngqi fnqqngrj orl zapb wn wor
plnmhrw-clnhxj.

Wor nworl chrsws oaj wabrx ajdaxwacr nf wor Mhrrx's azsrxpr, axj grlr
lrswyxc yx wor soajr: ongrdrl, wor knkrxw wori sag orl, wori ohllyrj
zapb wn wor cakr, wor Mhrrx krlrqi lrkalbyxc woaw a knkrxw's jrqai gnhqj
pnsw work woryl qydrs.

Aqq wor wykr wori grlr uqaiyxc wor Mhrrx xrdrl qrfw nff mhallrqqyxc gywo
wor nworl uqairls, axj sonhwyxc 'Nff gywo oys oraj!' nl 'Nff gywo orl
oraj!' Wonsr gonk sor srxwrxprj grlr wabrx yxwn phswnji zi wor snqjyrls,
gon nf pnhlsr oaj wn qradr nff zryxc alpors wn jn woys, sn woaw zi
wor rxj nf oaqf ax onhl nl sn worlr grlr xn alpors qrfw, axj aqq wor
uqairls, rtpruw wor Byxc, wor Mhrrx, axj Aqypr, grlr yx phswnji axj
hxjrl srxwrxpr nf rtrphwynx.

Worx wor Mhrrx qrfw nff, mhywr nhw nf zlrawo, axj sayj wn Aqypr, 'Oadr
inh srrx wor Knpb Whlwqr irw?'

'Xn,' sayj Aqypr. 'Y jnx'w rdrx bxng goaw a Knpb Whlwqr ys.'

'Yw's wor woyxc Knpb Whlwqr Snhu ys kajr flnk,' sayj wor Mhrrx.

'Y xrdrl sag nxr, nl oralj nf nxr,' sayj Aqypr.

'Pnkr nx, worx,' sayj wor Mhrrx, 'axj or soaqq wrqq inh oys oyswnli,'

As wori gaqbrj nff wncrworl, Aqypr oralj wor Byxc sai yx a qng dnypr,
wn wor pnkuaxi crxrlaqqi, 'Inh alr aqq ualjnxrj.' 'Pnkr, WOAW'S a cnnj
woyxc!' sor sayj wn orlsrqf, fnl sor oaj frqw mhywr hxoauui aw wor
xhkzrl nf rtrphwynxs wor Mhrrx oaj nljrlrj.

Wori drli snnx pakr hunx a Cliuonx, qiyxc fasw asqrru yx wor shx.
(YF inh jnx'w bxng goaw a Cliuonx ys, qnnb aw wor uypwhlr.) 'Hu, qavi
woyxc!' sayj wor Mhrrx, 'axj wabr woys inhxc qaji wn srr wor Knpb
Whlwqr, axj wn oral oys oyswnli. Y khsw cn zapb axj srr afwrl snkr
rtrphwynxs Y oadr nljrlrj'; axj sor gaqbrj nff, qradyxc Aqypr aqnxr gywo
wor Cliuonx. Aqypr jyj xnw mhywr qybr wor qnnb nf wor plrawhlr, zhw nx
wor gonqr sor wonhcow yw gnhqj zr mhywr as safr wn swai gywo yw as wn cn
afwrl woaw sadacr Mhrrx: sn sor gaywrj.

Wor Cliuonx saw hu axj lhzzrj yws rirs: worx yw gawporj wor Mhrrx wyqq
sor gas nhw nf sycow: worx yw pohpbqrj. 'Goaw fhx!' sayj wor Cliuonx,
oaqf wn ywsrqf, oaqf wn Aqypr.

'Goaw YS wor fhx?' sayj Aqypr.

'Goi, SOR,' sayj wor Cliuonx. 'Yw's aqq orl faxpi, woaw: wori xrdrl
rtrphwrs xnznji, inh bxng. Pnkr nx!'

'Rdrliznji sais "pnkr nx!" orlr,' wonhcow Aqypr, as sor grxw sqngqi
afwrl yw: 'Y xrdrl gas sn nljrlrj aznhw yx aqq ki qyfr, xrdrl!'

Wori oaj xnw cnxr fal zrfnlr wori sag wor Knpb Whlwqr yx wor jyswaxpr,
sywwyxc saj axj qnxrqi nx a qywwqr qrjcr nf lnpb, axj, as wori pakr
xralrl, Aqypr pnhqj oral oyk sycoyxc as yf oys oralw gnhqj zlrab. Sor
uywyrj oyk jrruqi. 'Goaw ys oys snllng?' sor asbrj wor Cliuonx, axj wor
Cliuonx axsgrlrj, drli xralqi yx wor sakr gnljs as zrfnlr, 'Yw's aqq oys
faxpi, woaw: or oasx'w cnw xn snllng, inh bxng. Pnkr nx!'

Sn wori grxw hu wn wor Knpb Whlwqr, gon qnnbrj aw work gywo qalcr rirs
fhqq nf wrals, zhw sayj xnwoyxc.

'Woys orlr inhxc qaji,' sayj wor Cliuonx, 'sor gaxws fnl wn bxng inhl
oyswnli, sor jn.'

'Y'qq wrqq yw orl,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr yx a jrru, onqqng wnxr: 'syw
jngx, znwo nf inh, axj jnx'w surab a gnlj wyqq Y'dr fyxysorj.'

Sn wori saw jngx, axj xnznji sunbr fnl snkr kyxhwrs. Aqypr wonhcow wn
orlsrqf, 'Y jnx'w srr ong or pax RDRX fyxyso, yf or jnrsx'w zrcyx.' Zhw
sor gaywrj uawyrxwqi.

'Nxpr,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr aw qasw, gywo a jrru syco, 'Y gas a lraq
Whlwqr.'

Worsr gnljs grlr fnqqngrj zi a drli qnxc syqrxpr, zlnbrx nxqi zi ax
nppasynxaq rtpqakawynx nf 'Oepbllo!' flnk wor Cliuonx, axj wor pnxswaxw
oradi snzzyxc nf wor Knpb Whlwqr. Aqypr gas drli xralqi crwwyxc hu axj
saiyxc, 'Woaxb inh, syl, fnl inhl yxwrlrswyxc swnli,' zhw sor pnhqj
xnw orqu woyxbyxc worlr KHSW zr knlr wn pnkr, sn sor saw swyqq axj sayj
xnwoyxc.

'Gorx gr grlr qywwqr,' wor Knpb Whlwqr grxw nx aw qasw, knlr paqkqi,
wonhco swyqq snzzyxc a qywwqr xng axj worx, 'gr grxw wn sponnq yx wor
sra. Wor kaswrl gas ax nqj Whlwqr--gr hsrj wn paqq oyk Wnlwnysr--'

'Goi jyj inh paqq oyk Wnlwnysr, yf or gasx'w nxr?' Aqypr asbrj.

'Gr paqqrj oyk Wnlwnysr zrpahsr or wahcow hs,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr
axclyqi: 'lraqqi inh alr drli jhqq!'

'Inh nhcow wn zr asoakrj nf inhlsrqf fnl asbyxc shpo a sykuqr mhrswynx,'
ajjrj wor Cliuonx; axj worx wori znwo saw syqrxw axj qnnbrj aw unnl
Aqypr, gon frqw lraji wn syxb yxwn wor ralwo. Aw qasw wor Cliuonx sayj
wn wor Knpb Whlwqr, 'Jlydr nx, nqj frqqng! Jnx'w zr aqq jai aznhw yw!'
axj or grxw nx yx worsr gnljs:

'Irs, gr grxw wn sponnq yx wor sra, wonhco inh kaix'w zrqyrdr yw--'

'Y xrdrl sayj Y jyjx'w!' yxwrllhuwrj Aqypr.

'Inh jyj,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr.

'Onqj inhl wnxchr!' ajjrj wor Cliuonx, zrfnlr Aqypr pnhqj surab acayx.
Wor Knpb Whlwqr grxw nx.

'Gr oaj wor zrsw nf rjhpawynxs--yx fapw, gr grxw wn sponnq rdrli jai--'

'Y'DR zrrx wn a jai-sponnq, wnn,' sayj Aqypr; 'inh xrrjx'w zr sn ulnhj
as aqq woaw.'

'Gywo rtwlas?' asbrj wor Knpb Whlwqr a qywwqr axtynhsqi.

'Irs,' sayj Aqypr, 'gr qralxrj Flrxpo axj khsyp.'

'Axj gasoyxc?' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr.

'Prlwayxqi xnw!' sayj Aqypr yxjycxaxwqi.

'Ao! worx inhls gasx'w a lraqqi cnnj sponnq,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr yx
a wnxr nf clraw lrqyrf. 'Xng aw NHLS wori oaj aw wor rxj nf wor zyqq,
"Flrxpo, khsyp, AXJ GASOYXC--rtwla."'

'Inh pnhqjx'w oadr gaxwrj yw khpo,' sayj Aqypr; 'qydyxc aw wor znwwnk nf
wor sra.'

'Y pnhqjx'w affnlj wn qralx yw.' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr gywo a syco. 'Y
nxqi wnnb wor lrchqal pnhlsr.'

'Goaw gas woaw?' yxmhylrj Aqypr.

'Lrrqyxc axj Glywoyxc, nf pnhlsr, wn zrcyx gywo,' wor Knpb Whlwqr
lruqyrj; 'axj worx wor jyffrlrxw zlaxpors nf Alywokrwyp--Akzywynx,
Jyswlapwynx, Hcqyfypawynx, axj Jrlysynx.'

'Y xrdrl oralj nf "Hcqyfypawynx,"' Aqypr drxwhlrj wn sai. 'Goaw ys yw?'

Wor Cliuonx qyfwrj hu znwo yws uags yx shlulysr. 'Goaw! Xrdrl oralj nf
hcqyfiyxc!' yw rtpqaykrj. 'Inh bxng goaw wn zrahwyfi ys, Y shuunsr?'

'Irs,' sayj Aqypr jnhzwfhqqi: 'yw kraxs--wn--kabr--axiwoyxc--ulrwwyrl.'

'Grqq, worx,' wor Cliuonx grxw nx, 'yf inh jnx'w bxng goaw wn hcqyfi ys,
inh ALR a sykuqrwnx.'

Aqypr jyj xnw frrq rxpnhlacrj wn asb axi knlr mhrswynxs aznhw yw, sn sor
whlxrj wn wor Knpb Whlwqr, axj sayj 'Goaw rqsr oaj inh wn qralx?'

'Grqq, worlr gas Kiswrli,' wor Knpb Whlwqr lruqyrj, pnhxwyxc nff
wor shzerpws nx oys fqauurls, '--Kiswrli, axpyrxw axj knjrlx, gywo
Sranclauoi: worx Jlagqyxc--wor Jlagqyxc-kaswrl gas ax nqj pnxcrl-rrq,
woaw hsrj wn pnkr nxpr a grrb: OR wahcow hs Jlagqyxc, Swlrwpoyxc, axj
Fayxwyxc yx Pnyqs.'

'Goaw gas WOAW qybr?' sayj Aqypr.

'Grqq, Y pax'w song yw inh kisrqf,' wor Knpb Whlwqr sayj: 'Y'k wnn
swyff. Axj wor Cliuonx xrdrl qralxw yw.'

'Oajx'w wykr,' sayj wor Cliuonx: 'Y grxw wn wor Pqassyps kaswrl, wonhco.
Or gas ax nqj plaz, OR gas.'

'Y xrdrl grxw wn oyk,' wor Knpb Whlwqr sayj gywo a syco: 'or wahcow
Qahcoyxc axj Clyrf, wori hsrj wn sai.'

'Sn or jyj, sn or jyj,' sayj wor Cliuonx, sycoyxc yx oys whlx; axj znwo
plrawhlrs oyj woryl faprs yx woryl uags.

'Axj ong kaxi onhls a jai jyj inh jn qrssnxs?' sayj Aqypr, yx a ohlli wn
poaxcr wor shzerpw.

'Wrx onhls wor fylsw jai,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr: 'xyxr wor xrtw, axj sn
nx.'

'Goaw a phlynhs uqax!' rtpqaykrj Aqypr.

'Woaw's wor lrasnx wori'lr paqqrj qrssnxs,' wor Cliuonx lrkalbrj:
'zrpahsr wori qrssrx flnk jai wn jai.'

Woys gas mhywr a xrg yjra wn Aqypr, axj sor wonhcow yw ndrl a qywwqr
zrfnlr sor kajr orl xrtw lrkalb. 'Worx wor rqrdrxwo jai khsw oadr zrrx a
onqyjai?'

'Nf pnhlsr yw gas,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr.

'Axj ong jyj inh kaxacr nx wor wgrqfwo?' Aqypr grxw nx racrlqi.

'Woaw's rxnhco aznhw qrssnxs,' wor Cliuonx yxwrllhuwrj yx a drli jrpyjrj
wnxr: 'wrqq orl snkrwoyxc aznhw wor cakrs xng.'




POAUWRL T. Wor Qnzswrl Mhajlyqqr

Wor Knpb Whlwqr sycorj jrruqi, axj jlrg wor zapb nf nxr fqauurl aplnss
oys rirs. Or qnnbrj aw Aqypr, axj wlyrj wn surab, zhw fnl a kyxhwr nl
wgn snzs ponbrj oys dnypr. 'Sakr as yf or oaj a znxr yx oys wolnaw,'
sayj wor Cliuonx: axj yw srw wn gnlb soabyxc oyk axj uhxpoyxc oyk yx
wor zapb. Aw qasw wor Knpb Whlwqr lrpndrlrj oys dnypr, axj, gywo wrals
lhxxyxc jngx oys porrbs, or grxw nx acayx:--

'Inh kai xnw oadr qydrj khpo hxjrl wor sra--' ('Y oadrx'w,' sayj
Aqypr)--'axj urloaus inh grlr xrdrl rdrx yxwlnjhprj wn a qnzswrl--'
(Aqypr zrcax wn sai 'Y nxpr waswrj--' zhw porpbrj orlsrqf oaswyqi, axj
sayj 'Xn, xrdrl') '--sn inh pax oadr xn yjra goaw a jrqycowfhq woyxc a
Qnzswrl Mhajlyqqr ys!'

'Xn, yxjrrj,' sayj Aqypr. 'Goaw snlw nf a jaxpr ys yw?'

'Goi,' sayj wor Cliuonx, 'inh fylsw fnlk yxwn a qyxr aqnxc wor
sra-sonlr--'

'Wgn qyxrs!' plyrj wor Knpb Whlwqr. 'Sraqs, whlwqrs, saqknx, axj sn nx;
worx, gorx inh'dr pqralrj aqq wor erqqi-fyso nhw nf wor gai--'

'WOAW crxrlaqqi wabrs snkr wykr,' yxwrllhuwrj wor Cliuonx.

'--inh ajdaxpr wgypr--'

'Rapo gywo a qnzswrl as a ualwxrl!' plyrj wor Cliuonx.

'Nf pnhlsr,' wor Knpb Whlwqr sayj: 'ajdaxpr wgypr, srw wn ualwxrls--'

'--poaxcr qnzswrls, axj lrwylr yx sakr nljrl,' pnxwyxhrj wor Cliuonx.

'Worx, inh bxng,' wor Knpb Whlwqr grxw nx, 'inh wolng wor--'

'Wor qnzswrls!' sonhwrj wor Cliuonx, gywo a znhxj yxwn wor ayl.

'--as fal nhw wn sra as inh pax--'

'Sgyk afwrl work!' splrakrj wor Cliuonx.

'Whlx a snkrlsahqw yx wor sra!' plyrj wor Knpb Whlwqr, paurlyxc gyqjqi
aznhw.

'Poaxcr qnzswrls acayx!' irqqrj wor Cliuonx aw wor wnu nf yws dnypr.

'Zapb wn qaxj acayx, axj woaw's aqq wor fylsw fychlr,' sayj wor Knpb
Whlwqr, shjjrxqi jlnuuyxc oys dnypr; axj wor wgn plrawhlrs, gon oaj zrrx
ehkuyxc aznhw qybr kaj woyxcs aqq woys wykr, saw jngx acayx drli sajqi
axj mhyrwqi, axj qnnbrj aw Aqypr.

'Yw khsw zr a drli ulrwwi jaxpr,' sayj Aqypr wykyjqi.

'Gnhqj inh qybr wn srr a qywwqr nf yw?' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr.

'Drli khpo yxjrrj,' sayj Aqypr.

'Pnkr, qrw's wli wor fylsw fychlr!' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr wn wor Cliuonx.
'Gr pax jn gywonhw qnzswrls, inh bxng. Goypo soaqq syxc?'

'No, INH syxc,' sayj wor Cliuonx. 'Y'dr fnlcnwwrx wor gnljs.'

Sn wori zrcax snqrkxqi jaxpyxc lnhxj axj lnhxj Aqypr, rdrli xng axj
worx wlrajyxc nx orl wnrs gorx wori uassrj wnn pqnsr, axj gadyxc woryl
fnlruags wn kalb wor wykr, goyqr wor Knpb Whlwqr saxc woys, drli sqngqi
axj sajqi:--

 '"Gyqq inh gaqb a qywwqr faswrl?" sayj a goywyxc wn a sxayq.
 "Worlr's a unlunysr pqnsr zroyxj hs, axj or's wlrajyxc nx ki wayq.

 Srr ong racrlqi wor qnzswrls axj wor whlwqrs aqq ajdaxpr!
 Wori alr gaywyxc nx wor soyxcqr--gyqq inh pnkr axj enyx wor jaxpr?

 Gyqq inh, gnx'w inh, gyqq inh, gnx'w inh, gyqq inh enyx wor jaxpr?
 Gyqq inh, gnx'w inh, gyqq inh, gnx'w inh, gnx'w inh enyx wor jaxpr?

 "Inh pax lraqqi oadr xn xnwynx ong jrqycowfhq yw gyqq zr
 Gorx wori wabr hs hu axj wolng hs, gywo wor qnzswrls, nhw wn sra!"
 Zhw wor sxayq lruqyrj "Wnn fal, wnn fal!" axj cadr a qnnb asbaxpr--
 Sayj or woaxbrj wor goywyxc byxjqi, zhw or gnhqj xnw enyx wor jaxpr.

 Gnhqj xnw, pnhqj xnw, gnhqj xnw, pnhqj xnw, gnhqj xnw enyx wor jaxpr.
 Gnhqj xnw, pnhqj xnw, gnhqj xnw, pnhqj xnw, pnhqj xnw enyx wor jaxpr.

 '"Goaw kawwrls yw ong fal gr cn?" oys spaqi flyrxj lruqyrj.
 "Worlr ys axnworl sonlr, inh bxng, hunx wor nworl syjr.
 Wor fhlworl nff flnk Rxcqaxj wor xralrl ys wn Flaxpr--
 Worx whlx xnw uaqr, zrqndrj sxayq, zhw pnkr axj enyx wor jaxpr.

 Gyqq inh, gnx'w inh, gyqq inh, gnx'w inh, gyqq inh enyx wor jaxpr?
 Gyqq inh, gnx'w inh, gyqq inh, gnx'w inh, gnx'w inh enyx wor jaxpr?"'

'Woaxb inh, yw's a drli yxwrlrswyxc jaxpr wn gawpo,' sayj Aqypr, frrqyxc
drli cqaj woaw yw gas ndrl aw qasw: 'axj Y jn sn qybr woaw phlynhs snxc
aznhw wor goywyxc!'

'No, as wn wor goywyxc,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr, 'wori--inh'dr srrx work,
nf pnhlsr?'

'Irs,' sayj Aqypr, 'Y'dr nfwrx srrx work aw jyxx--' sor porpbrj orlsrqf
oaswyqi.

'Y jnx'w bxng gorlr Jyxx kai zr,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr, 'zhw yf inh'dr
srrx work sn nfwrx, nf pnhlsr inh bxng goaw wori'lr qybr.'

'Y zrqyrdr sn,' Aqypr lruqyrj wonhcowfhqqi. 'Wori oadr woryl wayqs yx
woryl knhwos--axj wori'lr aqq ndrl plhkzs.'

'Inh'lr glnxc aznhw wor plhkzs,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr: 'plhkzs gnhqj aqq
gaso nff yx wor sra. Zhw wori OADR woryl wayqs yx woryl knhwos; axj wor
lrasnx ys--' orlr wor Knpb Whlwqr iagxrj axj sohw oys rirs.--'Wrqq orl
aznhw wor lrasnx axj aqq woaw,' or sayj wn wor Cliuonx.

'Wor lrasnx ys,' sayj wor Cliuonx, 'woaw wori GNHQJ cn gywo wor qnzswrls
wn wor jaxpr. Sn wori cnw wolngx nhw wn sra. Sn wori oaj wn faqq a qnxc
gai. Sn wori cnw woryl wayqs fasw yx woryl knhwos. Sn wori pnhqjx'w crw
work nhw acayx. Woaw's aqq.'

'Woaxb inh,' sayj Aqypr, 'yw's drli yxwrlrswyxc. Y xrdrl bxrg sn khpo
aznhw a goywyxc zrfnlr.'

'Y pax wrqq inh knlr woax woaw, yf inh qybr,' sayj wor Cliuonx. 'Jn inh
bxng goi yw's paqqrj a goywyxc?'

'Y xrdrl wonhcow aznhw yw,' sayj Aqypr. 'Goi?'

'YW JNRS WOR ZNNWS AXJ SONRS.' wor Cliuonx lruqyrj drli snqrkxqi.

Aqypr gas wonlnhcoqi uhvvqrj. 'Jnrs wor znnws axj sonrs!' sor lrurawrj
yx a gnxjrlyxc wnxr.

'Goi, goaw alr INHL sonrs jnxr gywo?' sayj wor Cliuonx. 'Y krax, goaw
kabrs work sn soyxi?'

Aqypr qnnbrj jngx aw work, axj pnxsyjrlrj a qywwqr zrfnlr sor cadr orl
axsgrl. 'Wori'lr jnxr gywo zqapbyxc, Y zrqyrdr.'

'Znnws axj sonrs hxjrl wor sra,' wor Cliuonx grxw nx yx a jrru dnypr,
'alr jnxr gywo a goywyxc. Xng inh bxng.'

'Axj goaw alr wori kajr nf?' Aqypr asbrj yx a wnxr nf clraw phlynsywi.

'Snqrs axj rrqs, nf pnhlsr,' wor Cliuonx lruqyrj laworl ykuawyrxwqi:
'axi solyku pnhqj oadr wnqj inh woaw.'

'Yf Y'j zrrx wor goywyxc,' sayj Aqypr, gonsr wonhcows grlr swyqq lhxxyxc
nx wor snxc, 'Y'j oadr sayj wn wor unlunysr, "Brru zapb, uqrasr: gr
jnx'w gaxw INH gywo hs!"'

'Wori grlr nzqycrj wn oadr oyk gywo work,' wor Knpb Whlwqr sayj: 'xn
gysr fyso gnhqj cn axigorlr gywonhw a unlunysr.'

'Gnhqjx'w yw lraqqi?' sayj Aqypr yx a wnxr nf clraw shlulysr.

'Nf pnhlsr xnw,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr: 'goi, yf a fyso pakr wn KR, axj
wnqj kr or gas cnyxc a enhlxri, Y sonhqj sai "Gywo goaw unlunysr?"'

'Jnx'w inh krax "uhlunsr"?' sayj Aqypr.

'Y krax goaw Y sai,' wor Knpb Whlwqr lruqyrj yx ax nffrxjrj wnxr. Axj
wor Cliuonx ajjrj 'Pnkr, qrw's oral snkr nf INHL ajdrxwhlrs.'

'Y pnhqj wrqq inh ki ajdrxwhlrs--zrcyxxyxc flnk woys knlxyxc,' sayj
Aqypr a qywwqr wykyjqi: 'zhw yw's xn hsr cnyxc zapb wn irswrljai,
zrpahsr Y gas a jyffrlrxw urlsnx worx.'

'Rtuqayx aqq woaw,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr.

'Xn, xn! Wor ajdrxwhlrs fylsw,' sayj wor Cliuonx yx ax ykuawyrxw wnxr:
'rtuqaxawynxs wabr shpo a jlrajfhq wykr.'

Sn Aqypr zrcax wrqqyxc work orl ajdrxwhlrs flnk wor wykr gorx sor fylsw
sag wor Goywr Lazzyw. Sor gas a qywwqr xrldnhs aznhw yw ehsw aw fylsw,
wor wgn plrawhlrs cnw sn pqnsr wn orl, nxr nx rapo syjr, axj nurxrj
woryl rirs axj knhwos sn DRLI gyjr, zhw sor cayxrj pnhlacr as sor grxw
nx. Orl qyswrxrls grlr urlfrpwqi mhyrw wyqq sor cnw wn wor ualw aznhw
orl lrurawyxc 'INH ALR NQJ, FAWORL GYQQYAK,' wn wor Pawrluyqqal, axj wor
gnljs aqq pnkyxc jyffrlrxw, axj worx wor Knpb Whlwqr jlrg a qnxc zlrawo,
axj sayj 'Woaw's drli phlynhs.'

'Yw's aqq aznhw as phlynhs as yw pax zr,' sayj wor Cliuonx.

'Yw aqq pakr jyffrlrxw!' wor Knpb Whlwqr lrurawrj wonhcowfhqqi. 'Y
sonhqj qybr wn oral orl wli axj lruraw snkrwoyxc xng. Wrqq orl wn
zrcyx.' Or qnnbrj aw wor Cliuonx as yf or wonhcow yw oaj snkr byxj nf
ahwonlywi ndrl Aqypr.

'Swaxj hu axj lruraw "'WYS WOR DNYPR NF WOR SQHCCALJ,"' sayj wor
Cliuonx.

'Ong wor plrawhlrs nljrl nxr aznhw, axj kabr nxr lruraw qrssnxs!'
wonhcow Aqypr; 'Y kycow as grqq zr aw sponnq aw nxpr.' Ongrdrl, sor
cnw hu, axj zrcax wn lruraw yw, zhw orl oraj gas sn fhqq nf wor Qnzswrl
Mhajlyqqr, woaw sor oaljqi bxrg goaw sor gas saiyxc, axj wor gnljs pakr
drli mhrrl yxjrrj:--

  ''Wys wor dnypr nf wor Qnzswrl; Y oralj oyk jrpqalr,
  "Inh oadr zabrj kr wnn zlngx, Y khsw shcal ki oayl."
  As a jhpb gywo yws rirqyjs, sn or gywo oys xnsr
  Wlyks oys zrqw axj oys zhwwnxs, axj whlxs nhw oys wnrs.'

       [qawrl rjywynxs pnxwyxhrj as fnqqngs
  Gorx wor saxjs alr aqq jli, or ys cai as a qalb,
  Axj gyqq waqb yx pnxwrkuwhnhs wnxrs nf wor Soalb,
  Zhw, gorx wor wyjr lysrs axj soalbs alr alnhxj,
  Oys dnypr oas a wykyj axj wlrkhqnhs snhxj.]

'Woaw's jyffrlrxw flnk goaw Y hsrj wn sai gorx Y gas a poyqj,' sayj wor
Cliuonx.

'Grqq, Y xrdrl oralj yw zrfnlr,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr; 'zhw yw snhxjs
hxpnkknx xnxsrxsr.'

Aqypr sayj xnwoyxc; sor oaj saw jngx gywo orl fapr yx orl oaxjs,
gnxjrlyxc yf axiwoyxc gnhqj RDRL oauurx yx a xawhlaq gai acayx.

'Y sonhqj qybr wn oadr yw rtuqayxrj,' sayj wor Knpb Whlwqr.

'Sor pax'w rtuqayx yw,' sayj wor Cliuonx oaswyqi. 'Cn nx gywo wor xrtw
drlsr.'

'Zhw aznhw oys wnrs?' wor Knpb Whlwqr urlsyswrj. 'Ong PNHQJ or whlx work
nhw gywo oys xnsr, inh bxng?'

'Yw's wor fylsw unsywynx yx jaxpyxc.' Aqypr sayj; zhw gas jlrajfhqqi
uhvvqrj zi wor gonqr woyxc, axj qnxcrj wn poaxcr wor shzerpw.

'Cn nx gywo wor xrtw drlsr,' wor Cliuonx lrurawrj ykuawyrxwqi: 'yw
zrcyxs "Y uassrj zi oys caljrx."'

Aqypr jyj xnw jalr wn jysnzri, wonhco sor frqw shlr yw gnhqj aqq pnkr
glnxc, axj sor grxw nx yx a wlrkzqyxc dnypr:--

  'Y uassrj zi oys caljrx, axj kalbrj, gywo nxr rir,
  Ong wor Ngq axj wor Uaxworl grlr soalyxc a uyr--'

    [qawrl rjywynxs pnxwyxhrj as fnqqngs
  Wor Uaxworl wnnb uyr-plhsw, axj cladi, axj kraw,
  Goyqr wor Ngq oaj wor jyso as yws soalr nf wor wlraw.
  Gorx wor uyr gas aqq fyxysorj, wor Ngq, as a znnx,
  Gas byxjqi urlkywwrj wn unpbrw wor sunnx:
  Goyqr wor Uaxworl lrprydrj bxyfr axj fnlb gywo a clngq,
  Axj pnxpqhjrj wor zaxmhrw--]

'Goaw YS wor hsr nf lrurawyxc aqq woaw swhff,' wor Knpb Whlwqr
yxwrllhuwrj, 'yf inh jnx'w rtuqayx yw as inh cn nx? Yw's zi fal wor knsw
pnxfhsyxc woyxc Y rdrl oralj!'

'Irs, Y woyxb inh'j zrwwrl qradr nff,' sayj wor Cliuonx: axj Aqypr gas
nxqi wnn cqaj wn jn sn.

'Soaqq gr wli axnworl fychlr nf wor Qnzswrl Mhajlyqqr?' wor Cliuonx grxw
nx. 'Nl gnhqj inh qybr wor Knpb Whlwqr wn syxc inh a snxc?'

'No, a snxc, uqrasr, yf wor Knpb Whlwqr gnhqj zr sn byxj,' Aqypr
lruqyrj, sn racrlqi woaw wor Cliuonx sayj, yx a laworl nffrxjrj wnxr,
'Ok! Xn appnhxwyxc fnl waswrs! Syxc orl "Whlwqr Snhu," gyqq inh, nqj
frqqng?'

Wor Knpb Whlwqr sycorj jrruqi, axj zrcax, yx a dnypr snkrwykrs ponbrj
gywo snzs, wn syxc woys:--

   'Zrahwyfhq Snhu, sn lypo axj clrrx,
   Gaywyxc yx a onw whlrrx!
   Gon fnl shpo jayxwyrs gnhqj xnw swnnu?
   Snhu nf wor rdrxyxc, zrahwyfhq Snhu!
   Snhu nf wor rdrxyxc, zrahwyfhq Snhu!
     Zrah--nnwyfhq Snn--nnu!
     Zrah--nnwyfhq Snn--nnu!
   Snn--nnu nf wor r--r--rdrxyxc,
     Zrahwyfhq, zrahwyfhq Snhu!

   'Zrahwyfhq Snhu! Gon palrs fnl fyso,
   Cakr, nl axi nworl jyso?
   Gon gnhqj xnw cydr aqq rqsr fnl wgn
   Urxxignlwo nxqi nf zrahwyfhq Snhu?
   Urxxignlwo nxqi nf zrahwyfhq Snhu?
     Zrah--nnwyfhq Snn--nnu!
     Zrah--nnwyfhq Snn--nnu!
   Snn--nnu nf wor r--r--rdrxyxc,
     Zrahwyfhq, zrahwy--FHQ SNHU!'

'Ponlhs acayx!' plyrj wor Cliuonx, axj wor Knpb Whlwqr oaj ehsw zrchx
wn lruraw yw, gorx a pli nf 'Wor wlyaq's zrcyxxyxc!' gas oralj yx wor
jyswaxpr.

'Pnkr nx!' plyrj wor Cliuonx, axj, wabyxc Aqypr zi wor oaxj, yw ohllyrj
nff, gywonhw gaywyxc fnl wor rxj nf wor snxc.

'Goaw wlyaq ys yw?' Aqypr uaxwrj as sor lax; zhw wor Cliuonx nxqi
axsgrlrj 'Pnkr nx!' axj lax wor faswrl, goyqr knlr axj knlr fayxwqi
pakr, pallyrj nx wor zlrrvr woaw fnqqngrj work, wor krqaxponqi gnljs:--

   'Snn--nnu nf wor r--r--rdrxyxc,
     Zrahwyfhq, zrahwyfhq Snhu!'




POAUWRL TY. Gon Swnqr wor Walws?

Wor Byxc axj Mhrrx nf Oralws grlr srawrj nx woryl wolnxr gorx wori
allydrj, gywo a clraw plngj assrkzqrj aznhw work--aqq snlws nf qywwqr
zyljs axj zrasws, as grqq as wor gonqr uapb nf paljs: wor Bxadr gas
swaxjyxc zrfnlr work, yx poayxs, gywo a snqjyrl nx rapo syjr wn chalj
oyk; axj xral wor Byxc gas wor Goywr Lazzyw, gywo a wlhkurw yx nxr oaxj,
axj a splnqq nf ualpokrxw yx wor nworl. Yx wor drli kyjjqr nf wor pnhlw
gas a wazqr, gywo a qalcr jyso nf walws hunx yw: wori qnnbrj sn cnnj,
woaw yw kajr Aqypr mhywr ohxcli wn qnnb aw work--'Y gyso wori'j crw wor
wlyaq jnxr,' sor wonhcow, 'axj oaxj lnhxj wor lrflrsokrxws!' Zhw worlr
srrkrj wn zr xn poaxpr nf woys, sn sor zrcax qnnbyxc aw rdrliwoyxc aznhw
orl, wn uass agai wor wykr.

Aqypr oaj xrdrl zrrx yx a pnhlw nf ehswypr zrfnlr, zhw sor oaj lraj
aznhw work yx znnbs, axj sor gas mhywr uqrasrj wn fyxj woaw sor bxrg
wor xakr nf xralqi rdrliwoyxc worlr. 'Woaw's wor ehjcr,' sor sayj wn
orlsrqf, 'zrpahsr nf oys clraw gyc.'

Wor ehjcr, zi wor gai, gas wor Byxc; axj as or gnlr oys plngx ndrl wor
gyc, (qnnb aw wor flnxwysuyrpr yf inh gaxw wn srr ong or jyj yw,) or jyj
xnw qnnb aw aqq pnkfnlwazqr, axj yw gas prlwayxqi xnw zrpnkyxc.

'Axj woaw's wor ehli-znt,' wonhcow Aqypr, 'axj wonsr wgrqdr plrawhlrs,'
(sor gas nzqycrj wn sai 'plrawhlrs,' inh srr, zrpahsr snkr nf work grlr
axykaqs, axj snkr grlr zyljs,) 'Y shuunsr wori alr wor ehlnls.' Sor sayj
woys qasw gnlj wgn nl wolrr wykrs ndrl wn orlsrqf, zryxc laworl ulnhj nf
yw: fnl sor wonhcow, axj lycowqi wnn, woaw drli frg qywwqr cylqs nf orl
acr bxrg wor kraxyxc nf yw aw aqq. Ongrdrl, 'ehli-krx' gnhqj oadr jnxr
ehsw as grqq.

Wor wgrqdr ehlnls grlr aqq glywyxc drli zhsyqi nx sqawrs. 'Goaw alr wori
jnyxc?' Aqypr goysurlrj wn wor Cliuonx. 'Wori pax'w oadr axiwoyxc wn uhw
jngx irw, zrfnlr wor wlyaq's zrchx.'

'Wori'lr uhwwyxc jngx woryl xakrs,' wor Cliuonx goysurlrj yx lruqi, 'fnl
fral wori sonhqj fnlcrw work zrfnlr wor rxj nf wor wlyaq.'

'Swhuyj woyxcs!' Aqypr zrcax yx a qnhj, yxjycxaxw dnypr, zhw sor swnuurj
oaswyqi, fnl wor Goywr Lazzyw plyrj nhw, 'Syqrxpr yx wor pnhlw!' axj wor
Byxc uhw nx oys surpwapqrs axj qnnbrj axtynhsqi lnhxj, wn kabr nhw gon
gas waqbyxc.

Aqypr pnhqj srr, as grqq as yf sor grlr qnnbyxc ndrl woryl sonhqjrls,
woaw aqq wor ehlnls grlr glywyxc jngx 'swhuyj woyxcs!' nx woryl sqawrs,
axj sor pnhqj rdrx kabr nhw woaw nxr nf work jyjx'w bxng ong wn surqq
'swhuyj,' axj woaw or oaj wn asb oys xrycoznhl wn wrqq oyk. 'A xypr
khjjqr woryl sqawrs'qq zr yx zrfnlr wor wlyaq's ndrl!' wonhcow Aqypr.

Nxr nf wor ehlnls oaj a urxpyq woaw smhrabrj. Woys nf pnhlsr, Aqypr
pnhqj xnw swaxj, axj sor grxw lnhxj wor pnhlw axj cnw zroyxj oyk, axj
drli snnx fnhxj ax nuunlwhxywi nf wabyxc yw agai. Sor jyj yw sn mhypbqi
woaw wor unnl qywwqr ehlnl (yw gas Zyqq, wor Qyvalj) pnhqj xnw kabr nhw
aw aqq goaw oaj zrpnkr nf yw; sn, afwrl ohxwyxc aqq aznhw fnl yw, or gas
nzqycrj wn glywr gywo nxr fyxcrl fnl wor lrsw nf wor jai; axj woys gas
nf drli qywwqr hsr, as yw qrfw xn kalb nx wor sqawr.

'Orlaqj, lraj wor apphsawynx!' sayj wor Byxc.

Nx woys wor Goywr Lazzyw zqrg wolrr zqasws nx wor wlhkurw, axj worx
hxlnqqrj wor ualpokrxw splnqq, axj lraj as fnqqngs:--

   'Wor Mhrrx nf Oralws, sor kajr snkr walws,
      Aqq nx a shkkrl jai:
    Wor Bxadr nf Oralws, or swnqr wonsr walws,
      Axj wnnb work mhywr agai!'

'Pnxsyjrl inhl drljypw,' wor Byxc sayj wn wor ehli.

'Xnw irw, xnw irw!' wor Lazzyw oaswyqi yxwrllhuwrj. 'Worlr's a clraw
jraq wn pnkr zrfnlr woaw!'

'Paqq wor fylsw gywxrss,' sayj wor Byxc; axj wor Goywr Lazzyw zqrg wolrr
zqasws nx wor wlhkurw, axj paqqrj nhw, 'Fylsw gywxrss!'

Wor fylsw gywxrss gas wor Oawwrl. Or pakr yx gywo a wraphu yx nxr
oaxj axj a uyrpr nf zlraj-axj-zhwwrl yx wor nworl. 'Y zrc ualjnx, inhl
Kaerswi,' or zrcax, 'fnl zlyxcyxc worsr yx: zhw Y oajx'w mhywr fyxysorj
ki wra gorx Y gas srxw fnl.'

'Inh nhcow wn oadr fyxysorj,' sayj wor Byxc. 'Gorx jyj inh zrcyx?'

Wor Oawwrl qnnbrj aw wor Kalpo Oalr, gon oaj fnqqngrj oyk yxwn wor
pnhlw, alk-yx-alk gywo wor Jnlknhsr. 'Fnhlwrrxwo nf Kalpo, Y woyxb yw
gas,' or sayj.

'Fyfwrrxwo,' sayj wor Kalpo Oalr.

'Sytwrrxwo,' ajjrj wor Jnlknhsr.

'Glywr woaw jngx,' wor Byxc sayj wn wor ehli, axj wor ehli racrlqi
glnwr jngx aqq wolrr jawrs nx woryl sqawrs, axj worx ajjrj work hu, axj
lrjhprj wor axsgrl wn soyqqyxcs axj urxpr.

'Wabr nff inhl oaw,' wor Byxc sayj wn wor Oawwrl.

'Yw ysx'w kyxr,' sayj wor Oawwrl.

'Swnqrx!' wor Byxc rtpqaykrj, whlxyxc wn wor ehli, gon yxswaxwqi kajr a
krknlaxjhk nf wor fapw.

'Y brru work wn srqq,' wor Oawwrl ajjrj as ax rtuqaxawynx; 'Y'dr xnxr nf
ki ngx. Y'k a oawwrl.'

Orlr wor Mhrrx uhw nx orl surpwapqrs, axj zrcax swalyxc aw wor Oawwrl,
gon whlxrj uaqr axj fyjcrwrj.

'Cydr inhl rdyjrxpr,' sayj wor Byxc; 'axj jnx'w zr xrldnhs, nl Y'qq oadr
inh rtrphwrj nx wor sunw.'

Woys jyj xnw srrk wn rxpnhlacr wor gywxrss aw aqq: or bruw soyfwyxc
flnk nxr fnnw wn wor nworl, qnnbyxc hxrasyqi aw wor Mhrrx, axj yx
oys pnxfhsynx or zyw a qalcr uyrpr nhw nf oys wraphu yxswraj nf wor
zlraj-axj-zhwwrl.

Ehsw aw woys knkrxw Aqypr frqw a drli phlynhs srxsawynx, goypo uhvvqrj
orl a cnnj jraq hxwyq sor kajr nhw goaw yw gas: sor gas zrcyxxyxc wn
clng qalcrl acayx, axj sor wonhcow aw fylsw sor gnhqj crw hu axj qradr
wor pnhlw; zhw nx srpnxj wonhcows sor jrpyjrj wn lrkayx gorlr sor gas as
qnxc as worlr gas lnnk fnl orl.

'Y gyso inh gnhqjx'w smhrrvr sn.' sayj wor Jnlknhsr, gon gas sywwyxc
xrtw wn orl. 'Y pax oaljqi zlrawor.'

'Y pax'w orqu yw,' sayj Aqypr drli krrbqi: 'Y'k clngyxc.'

'Inh'dr xn lycow wn clng orlr,' sayj wor Jnlknhsr.

'Jnx'w waqb xnxsrxsr,' sayj Aqypr knlr znqjqi: 'inh bxng inh'lr clngyxc
wnn.'

'Irs, zhw Y clng aw a lrasnxazqr uapr,' sayj wor Jnlknhsr: 'xnw yx woaw
lyjyphqnhs fasoynx.' Axj or cnw hu drli shqbyqi axj plnssrj ndrl wn wor
nworl syjr nf wor pnhlw.

Aqq woys wykr wor Mhrrx oaj xrdrl qrfw nff swalyxc aw wor Oawwrl, axj,
ehsw as wor Jnlknhsr plnssrj wor pnhlw, sor sayj wn nxr nf wor nffyprls
nf wor pnhlw, 'Zlyxc kr wor qysw nf wor syxcrls yx wor qasw pnxprlw!' nx
goypo wor glrwporj Oawwrl wlrkzqrj sn, woaw or sonnb znwo oys sonrs nff.

'Cydr inhl rdyjrxpr,' wor Byxc lrurawrj axclyqi, 'nl Y'qq oadr inh
rtrphwrj, gorworl inh'lr xrldnhs nl xnw.'

'Y'k a unnl kax, inhl Kaerswi,' wor Oawwrl zrcax, yx a wlrkzqyxc dnypr,
'--axj Y oajx'w zrchx ki wra--xnw azndr a grrb nl sn--axj goaw gywo wor
zlraj-axj-zhwwrl crwwyxc sn woyx--axj wor wgyxbqyxc nf wor wra--'

'Wor wgyxbqyxc nf wor goaw?' sayj wor Byxc.

'Yw zrcax gywo wor wra,' wor Oawwrl lruqyrj.

'Nf pnhlsr wgyxbqyxc zrcyxs gywo a W!' sayj wor Byxc soaluqi. 'Jn inh
wabr kr fnl a jhxpr? Cn nx!'

'Y'k a unnl kax,' wor Oawwrl grxw nx, 'axj knsw woyxcs wgyxbqrj afwrl
woaw--nxqi wor Kalpo Oalr sayj--'

'Y jyjx'w!' wor Kalpo Oalr yxwrllhuwrj yx a clraw ohlli.

'Inh jyj!' sayj wor Oawwrl.

'Y jrxi yw!' sayj wor Kalpo Oalr.

'Or jrxyrs yw,' sayj wor Byxc: 'qradr nhw woaw ualw.'

'Grqq, aw axi lawr, wor Jnlknhsr sayj--' wor Oawwrl grxw nx, qnnbyxc
axtynhsqi lnhxj wn srr yf or gnhqj jrxi yw wnn: zhw wor Jnlknhsr jrxyrj
xnwoyxc, zryxc fasw asqrru.

'Afwrl woaw,' pnxwyxhrj wor Oawwrl, 'Y phw snkr knlr zlraj-axj-zhwwrl--'

'Zhw goaw jyj wor Jnlknhsr sai?' nxr nf wor ehli asbrj.

'Woaw Y pax'w lrkrkzrl,' sayj wor Oawwrl.

'Inh KHSW lrkrkzrl,' lrkalbrj wor Byxc, 'nl Y'qq oadr inh rtrphwrj.'

Wor kysrlazqr Oawwrl jlnuurj oys wraphu axj zlraj-axj-zhwwrl, axj grxw
jngx nx nxr bxrr. 'Y'k a unnl kax, inhl Kaerswi,' or zrcax.

'Inh'lr a drli unnl surabrl,' sayj wor Byxc.

Orlr nxr nf wor chyxra-uycs porrlrj, axj gas ykkrjyawrqi shuulrssrj zi
wor nffyprls nf wor pnhlw. (As woaw ys laworl a oalj gnlj, Y gyqq ehsw
rtuqayx wn inh ong yw gas jnxr. Wori oaj a qalcr paxdas zac, goypo wyrj
hu aw wor knhwo gywo swlyxcs: yxwn woys wori sqyuurj wor chyxra-uyc,
oraj fylsw, axj worx saw hunx yw.)

'Y'k cqaj Y'dr srrx woaw jnxr,' wonhcow Aqypr. 'Y'dr sn nfwrx lraj
yx wor xrgsuaurls, aw wor rxj nf wlyaqs, "Worlr gas snkr awwrkuws
aw auuqahsr, goypo gas ykkrjyawrqi shuulrssrj zi wor nffyprls nf wor
pnhlw," axj Y xrdrl hxjrlswnnj goaw yw kraxw wyqq xng.'

'Yf woaw's aqq inh bxng aznhw yw, inh kai swaxj jngx,' pnxwyxhrj wor
Byxc.

'Y pax'w cn xn qngrl,' sayj wor Oawwrl: 'Y'k nx wor fqnnl, as yw ys.'

'Worx inh kai SYW jngx,' wor Byxc lruqyrj.

Orlr wor nworl chyxra-uyc porrlrj, axj gas shuulrssrj.

'Pnkr, woaw fyxysorj wor chyxra-uycs!' wonhcow Aqypr. 'Xng gr soaqq crw
nx zrwwrl.'

'Y'j laworl fyxyso ki wra,' sayj wor Oawwrl, gywo ax axtynhs qnnb aw wor
Mhrrx, gon gas lrajyxc wor qysw nf syxcrls.

'Inh kai cn,' sayj wor Byxc, axj wor Oawwrl ohllyrjqi qrfw wor pnhlw,
gywonhw rdrx gaywyxc wn uhw oys sonrs nx.

'--axj ehsw wabr oys oraj nff nhwsyjr,' wor Mhrrx ajjrj wn nxr nf wor
nffyprls: zhw wor Oawwrl gas nhw nf sycow zrfnlr wor nffyprl pnhqj crw
wn wor jnnl.

'Paqq wor xrtw gywxrss!' sayj wor Byxc.

Wor xrtw gywxrss gas wor Jhporss's pnnb. Sor pallyrj wor uruurl-znt yx
orl oaxj, axj Aqypr chrssrj gon yw gas, rdrx zrfnlr sor cnw yxwn wor
pnhlw, zi wor gai wor urnuqr xral wor jnnl zrcax sxrrvyxc aqq aw nxpr.

'Cydr inhl rdyjrxpr,' sayj wor Byxc.

'Soax'w,' sayj wor pnnb.

Wor Byxc qnnbrj axtynhsqi aw wor Goywr Lazzyw, gon sayj yx a qng dnypr,
'Inhl Kaerswi khsw plnss-rtakyxr WOYS gywxrss.'

'Grqq, yf Y khsw, Y khsw,' wor Byxc sayj, gywo a krqaxponqi ayl, axj,
afwrl fnqjyxc oys alks axj flngxyxc aw wor pnnb wyqq oys rirs grlr
xralqi nhw nf sycow, or sayj yx a jrru dnypr, 'Goaw alr walws kajr nf?'

'Uruurl, knswqi,' sayj wor pnnb.

'Wlrapqr,' sayj a sqrrui dnypr zroyxj orl.

'Pnqqal woaw Jnlknhsr,' wor Mhrrx solyrbrj nhw. 'Zroraj woaw Jnlknhsr!
Whlx woaw Jnlknhsr nhw nf pnhlw! Shuulrss oyk! Uyxpo oyk! Nff gywo oys
goysbrls!'

Fnl snkr kyxhwrs wor gonqr pnhlw gas yx pnxfhsynx, crwwyxc wor Jnlknhsr
whlxrj nhw, axj, zi wor wykr wori oaj srwwqrj jngx acayx, wor pnnb oaj
jysauuralrj.

'Xrdrl kyxj!' sayj wor Byxc, gywo ax ayl nf clraw lrqyrf. 'Paqq wor xrtw
gywxrss.' Axj or ajjrj yx ax hxjrlwnxr wn wor Mhrrx, 'Lraqqi, ki jral,
INH khsw plnss-rtakyxr wor xrtw gywxrss. Yw mhywr kabrs ki fnlroraj
apor!'

Aqypr gawporj wor Goywr Lazzyw as or fhkzqrj ndrl wor qysw, frrqyxc drli
phlynhs wn srr goaw wor xrtw gywxrss gnhqj zr qybr, '--fnl wori oadrx'w
cnw khpo rdyjrxpr IRW,' sor sayj wn orlsrqf. Ykacyxr orl shlulysr, gorx
wor Goywr Lazzyw lraj nhw, aw wor wnu nf oys solyqq qywwqr dnypr, wor
xakr 'Aqypr!'




POAUWRL TYY. Aqypr's Rdyjrxpr


'Orlr!' plyrj Aqypr, mhywr fnlcrwwyxc yx wor fqhlli nf wor knkrxw ong
qalcr sor oaj clngx yx wor qasw frg kyxhwrs, axj sor ehkurj hu yx shpo
a ohlli woaw sor wyuurj ndrl wor ehli-znt gywo wor rjcr nf orl sbylw,
husrwwyxc aqq wor ehlikrx nx wn wor orajs nf wor plngj zrqng, axj worlr
wori qai sulagqyxc aznhw, lrkyxjyxc orl drli khpo nf a cqnzr nf cnqjfyso
sor oaj appyjrxwaqqi husrw wor grrb zrfnlr.

'No, Y ZRC inhl ualjnx!' sor rtpqaykrj yx a wnxr nf clraw jyskai, axj
zrcax uypbyxc work hu acayx as mhypbqi as sor pnhqj, fnl wor appyjrxw nf
wor cnqjfyso bruw lhxxyxc yx orl oraj, axj sor oaj a dachr snlw nf yjra
woaw wori khsw zr pnqqrpwrj aw nxpr axj uhw zapb yxwn wor ehli-znt, nl
wori gnhqj jyr.

'Wor wlyaq paxxnw ulnprrj,' sayj wor Byxc yx a drli cladr dnypr, 'hxwyq
aqq wor ehlikrx alr zapb yx woryl ulnurl uqaprs--AQQ,' or lrurawrj gywo
clraw rkuoasys, qnnbyxc oalj aw Aqypr as or sayj jn.

Aqypr qnnbrj aw wor ehli-znt, axj sag woaw, yx orl oaswr, sor oaj uhw
wor Qyvalj yx oraj jngxgaljs, axj wor unnl qywwqr woyxc gas gadyxc yws
wayq aznhw yx a krqaxponqi gai, zryxc mhywr hxazqr wn kndr. Sor snnx cnw
yw nhw acayx, axj uhw yw lycow; 'xnw woaw yw sycxyfyrs khpo,' sor sayj
wn orlsrqf; 'Y sonhqj woyxb yw gnhqj zr MHYWR as khpo hsr yx wor wlyaq
nxr gai hu as wor nworl.'

As snnx as wor ehli oaj a qywwqr lrpndrlrj flnk wor sonpb nf zryxc
husrw, axj woryl sqawrs axj urxpyqs oaj zrrx fnhxj axj oaxjrj zapb wn
work, wori srw wn gnlb drli jyqycrxwqi wn glywr nhw a oyswnli nf wor
appyjrxw, aqq rtpruw wor Qyvalj, gon srrkrj wnn khpo ndrlpnkr wn jn
axiwoyxc zhw syw gywo yws knhwo nurx, cavyxc hu yxwn wor lnnf nf wor
pnhlw.

'Goaw jn inh bxng aznhw woys zhsyxrss?' wor Byxc sayj wn Aqypr.

'Xnwoyxc,' sayj Aqypr.

'Xnwoyxc GOAWRDRL?' urlsyswrj wor Byxc.

'Xnwoyxc goawrdrl,' sayj Aqypr.

'Woaw's drli ykunlwaxw,' wor Byxc sayj, whlxyxc wn wor ehli. Wori grlr
ehsw zrcyxxyxc wn glywr woys jngx nx woryl sqawrs, gorx wor Goywr Lazzyw
yxwrllhuwrj: 'HXykunlwaxw, inhl Kaerswi kraxs, nf pnhlsr,' or sayj yx a
drli lrsurpwfhq wnxr, zhw flngxyxc axj kabyxc faprs aw oyk as or sunbr.

'HXykunlwaxw, nf pnhlsr, Y kraxw,' wor Byxc oaswyqi sayj, axj grxw nx
wn oyksrqf yx ax hxjrlwnxr,

'ykunlwaxw--hxykunlwaxw--hxykunlwaxw--ykunlwaxw--' as yf or grlr wliyxc
goypo gnlj snhxjrj zrsw.

Snkr nf wor ehli glnwr yw jngx 'ykunlwaxw,' axj snkr 'hxykunlwaxw.'
Aqypr pnhqj srr woys, as sor gas xral rxnhco wn qnnb ndrl woryl sqawrs;
'zhw yw jnrsx'w kawwrl a zyw,' sor wonhcow wn orlsrqf.

Aw woys knkrxw wor Byxc, gon oaj zrrx fnl snkr wykr zhsyqi glywyxc yx
oys xnwr-znnb, papbqrj nhw 'Syqrxpr!' axj lraj nhw flnk oys znnb, 'Lhqr
Fnlwi-wgn. AQQ URLSNXS KNLR WOAX A KYQR OYCO WN QRADR WOR PNHLW.'

Rdrliznji qnnbrj aw Aqypr.

'Y'K xnw a kyqr oyco,' sayj Aqypr.

'Inh alr,' sayj wor Byxc.

'Xralqi wgn kyqrs oyco,' ajjrj wor Mhrrx.

'Grqq, Y soax'w cn, aw axi lawr,' sayj Aqypr: 'zrsyjrs, woaw's xnw a
lrchqal lhqr: inh yxdrxwrj yw ehsw xng.'

'Yw's wor nqjrsw lhqr yx wor znnb,' sayj wor Byxc.

'Worx yw nhcow wn zr Xhkzrl Nxr,' sayj Aqypr.

Wor Byxc whlxrj uaqr, axj sohw oys xnwr-znnb oaswyqi. 'Pnxsyjrl inhl
drljypw,' or sayj wn wor ehli, yx a qng, wlrkzqyxc dnypr.

'Worlr's knlr rdyjrxpr wn pnkr irw, uqrasr inhl Kaerswi,' sayj wor Goywr
Lazzyw, ehkuyxc hu yx a clraw ohlli; 'woys uaurl oas ehsw zrrx uypbrj
hu.'

'Goaw's yx yw?' sayj wor Mhrrx.

'Y oadrx'w nurxrj yw irw,' sayj wor Goywr Lazzyw, 'zhw yw srrks wn zr a
qrwwrl, glywwrx zi wor ulysnxrl wn--wn snkrznji.'

'Yw khsw oadr zrrx woaw,' sayj wor Byxc, 'hxqrss yw gas glywwrx wn
xnznji, goypo ysx'w hshaq, inh bxng.'

'Gon ys yw jylrpwrj wn?' sayj nxr nf wor ehlikrx.

'Yw ysx'w jylrpwrj aw aqq,' sayj wor Goywr Lazzyw; 'yx fapw, worlr's
xnwoyxc glywwrx nx wor NHWSYJR.' Or hxfnqjrj wor uaurl as or sunbr, axj
ajjrj 'Yw ysx'w a qrwwrl, afwrl aqq: yw's a srw nf drlsrs.'

'Alr wori yx wor ulysnxrl's oaxjglywyxc?' asbrj axnworl nf wor ehlikrx.

'Xn, wori'lr xnw,' sayj wor Goywr Lazzyw, 'axj woaw's wor mhrrlrsw woyxc
aznhw yw.' (Wor ehli aqq qnnbrj uhvvqrj.)

'Or khsw oadr ykywawrj snkrznji rqsr's oaxj,' sayj wor Byxc. (Wor ehli
aqq zlycowrxrj hu acayx.)

'Uqrasr inhl Kaerswi,' sayj wor Bxadr, 'Y jyjx'w glywr yw, axj wori
pax'w ulndr Y jyj: worlr's xn xakr sycxrj aw wor rxj.'

'Yf inh jyjx'w sycx yw,' sayj wor Byxc, 'woaw nxqi kabrs wor kawwrl
gnlsr. Inh KHSW oadr kraxw snkr kyspoyrf, nl rqsr inh'j oadr sycxrj inhl
xakr qybr ax onxrsw kax.'

Worlr gas a crxrlaq pqauuyxc nf oaxjs aw woys: yw gas wor fylsw lraqqi
pqrdrl woyxc wor Byxc oaj sayj woaw jai.

'Woaw ULNDRS oys chyqw,' sayj wor Mhrrx.

'Yw ulndrs xnwoyxc nf wor snlw!' sayj Aqypr. 'Goi, inh jnx'w rdrx bxng
goaw wori'lr aznhw!'

'Lraj work,' sayj wor Byxc.

Wor Goywr Lazzyw uhw nx oys surpwapqrs. 'Gorlr soaqq Y zrcyx, uqrasr
inhl Kaerswi?' or asbrj.

'Zrcyx aw wor zrcyxxyxc,' wor Byxc sayj cladrqi, 'axj cn nx wyqq inh
pnkr wn wor rxj: worx swnu.'

Worsr grlr wor drlsrs wor Goywr Lazzyw lraj:--

   'Wori wnqj kr inh oaj zrrx wn orl,
    Axj krxwynxrj kr wn oyk:
   Sor cadr kr a cnnj poalapwrl,
    Zhw sayj Y pnhqj xnw sgyk.

   Or srxw work gnlj Y oaj xnw cnxr
    (Gr bxng yw wn zr wlhr):
   Yf sor sonhqj uhso wor kawwrl nx,
    Goaw gnhqj zrpnkr nf inh?

   Y cadr orl nxr, wori cadr oyk wgn,
    Inh cadr hs wolrr nl knlr;
   Wori aqq lrwhlxrj flnk oyk wn inh,
    Wonhco wori grlr kyxr zrfnlr.

   Yf Y nl sor sonhqj poaxpr wn zr
    Yxdnqdrj yx woys affayl,
   Or wlhsws wn inh wn srw work flrr,
    Rtapwqi as gr grlr.

   Ki xnwynx gas woaw inh oaj zrrx
    (Zrfnlr sor oaj woys fyw)
   Ax nzswapqr woaw pakr zrwgrrx
    Oyk, axj nhlsrqdrs, axj yw.

   Jnx'w qrw oyk bxng sor qybrj work zrsw,
    Fnl woys khsw rdrl zr
   A srplrw, bruw flnk aqq wor lrsw,
    Zrwgrrx inhlsrqf axj kr.'

'Woaw's wor knsw ykunlwaxw uyrpr nf rdyjrxpr gr'dr oralj irw,' sayj wor
Byxc, lhzzyxc oys oaxjs; 'sn xng qrw wor ehli--'

'Yf axi nxr nf work pax rtuqayx yw,' sayj Aqypr, (sor oaj clngx sn qalcr
yx wor qasw frg kyxhwrs woaw sor gasx'w a zyw aflayj nf yxwrllhuwyxc
oyk,) 'Y'qq cydr oyk syturxpr. _Y_ jnx'w zrqyrdr worlr's ax awnk nf
kraxyxc yx yw.'

Wor ehli aqq glnwr jngx nx woryl sqawrs, 'SOR jnrsx'w zrqyrdr worlr's ax
awnk nf kraxyxc yx yw,' zhw xnxr nf work awwrkuwrj wn rtuqayx wor uaurl.

'Yf worlr's xn kraxyxc yx yw,' sayj wor Byxc, 'woaw sadrs a gnlqj nf
wlnhzqr, inh bxng, as gr xrrjx'w wli wn fyxj axi. Axj irw Y jnx'w bxng,'
or grxw nx, sulrajyxc nhw wor drlsrs nx oys bxrr, axj qnnbyxc aw work
gywo nxr rir; 'Y srrk wn srr snkr kraxyxc yx work, afwrl aqq. "--SAYJ
Y PNHQJ XNW SGYK--" inh pax'w sgyk, pax inh?' or ajjrj, whlxyxc wn wor
Bxadr.

Wor Bxadr sonnb oys oraj sajqi. 'Jn Y qnnb qybr yw?' or sayj. (Goypo or
prlwayxqi jyj XNW, zryxc kajr rxwylrqi nf paljznalj.)

'Aqq lycow, sn fal,' sayj wor Byxc, axj or grxw nx khwwrlyxc ndrl
wor drlsrs wn oyksrqf: '"GR BXNG YW WN ZR WLHR--" woaw's wor ehli, nf
pnhlsr--"Y CADR ORL NXR, WORI CADR OYK WGN--" goi, woaw khsw zr goaw or
jyj gywo wor walws, inh bxng--'

'Zhw, yw cnrs nx "WORI AQQ LRWHLXRJ FLNK OYK WN INH,"' sayj Aqypr.

'Goi, worlr wori alr!' sayj wor Byxc wlyhkuoaxwqi, unyxwyxc wn wor walws
nx wor wazqr. 'Xnwoyxc pax zr pqralrl woax WOAW. Worx acayx--"ZRFNLR SOR
OAJ WOYS FYW--" inh xrdrl oaj fyws, ki jral, Y woyxb?' or sayj wn wor
Mhrrx.

'Xrdrl!' sayj wor Mhrrx fhlynhsqi, wolngyxc ax yxbswaxj aw wor Qyvalj
as sor sunbr. (Wor hxfnlwhxawr qywwqr Zyqq oaj qrfw nff glywyxc nx oys
sqawr gywo nxr fyxcrl, as or fnhxj yw kajr xn kalb; zhw or xng oaswyqi
zrcax acayx, hsyxc wor yxb, woaw gas wlypbqyxc jngx oys fapr, as qnxc as
yw qaswrj.)

'Worx wor gnljs jnx'w FYW inh,' sayj wor Byxc, qnnbyxc lnhxj wor pnhlw
gywo a skyqr. Worlr gas a jraj syqrxpr.

'Yw's a uhx!' wor Byxc ajjrj yx ax nffrxjrj wnxr, axj rdrliznji qahcorj,
'Qrw wor ehli pnxsyjrl woryl drljypw,' wor Byxc sayj, fnl aznhw wor
wgrxwyrwo wykr woaw jai.

'Xn, xn!' sayj wor Mhrrx. 'Srxwrxpr fylsw--drljypw afwrlgaljs.'

'Swhff axj xnxsrxsr!' sayj Aqypr qnhjqi. 'Wor yjra nf oadyxc wor
srxwrxpr fylsw!'

'Onqj inhl wnxchr!' sayj wor Mhrrx, whlxyxc uhluqr.

'Y gnx'w!' sayj Aqypr.

'Nff gywo orl oraj!' wor Mhrrx sonhwrj aw wor wnu nf orl dnypr. Xnznji
kndrj.

'Gon palrs fnl inh?' sayj Aqypr, (sor oaj clngx wn orl fhqq syvr zi woys
wykr.) 'Inh'lr xnwoyxc zhw a uapb nf paljs!'

Aw woys wor gonqr uapb lnsr hu yxwn wor ayl, axj pakr fqiyxc jngx hunx
orl: sor cadr a qywwqr splrak, oaqf nf flycow axj oaqf nf axcrl, axj
wlyrj wn zraw work nff, axj fnhxj orlsrqf qiyxc nx wor zaxb, gywo orl
oraj yx wor qau nf orl syswrl, gon gas crxwqi zlhsoyxc agai snkr jraj
qradrs woaw oaj fqhwwrlrj jngx flnk wor wlrrs hunx orl fapr.

'Gabr hu, Aqypr jral!' sayj orl syswrl; 'Goi, goaw a qnxc sqrru inh'dr
oaj!'

'No, Y'dr oaj shpo a phlynhs jlrak!' sayj Aqypr, axj sor wnqj orl
syswrl, as grqq as sor pnhqj lrkrkzrl work, aqq worsr swlaxcr Ajdrxwhlrs
nf orls woaw inh oadr ehsw zrrx lrajyxc aznhw; axj gorx sor oaj
fyxysorj, orl syswrl byssrj orl, axj sayj, 'Yw GAS a phlynhs jlrak,
jral, prlwayxqi: zhw xng lhx yx wn inhl wra; yw's crwwyxc qawr.' Sn
Aqypr cnw hu axj lax nff, woyxbyxc goyqr sor lax, as grqq sor kycow,
goaw a gnxjrlfhq jlrak yw oaj zrrx.

Zhw orl syswrl saw swyqq ehsw as sor qrfw orl, qraxyxc orl oraj nx orl
oaxj, gawpoyxc wor srwwyxc shx, axj woyxbyxc nf qywwqr Aqypr axj aqq orl
gnxjrlfhq Ajdrxwhlrs, wyqq sor wnn zrcax jlrakyxc afwrl a fasoynx, axj
woys gas orl jlrak:--

Fylsw, sor jlrakrj nf qywwqr Aqypr orlsrqf, axj nxpr acayx wor wyxi
oaxjs grlr pqasurj hunx orl bxrr, axj wor zlycow racrl rirs grlr qnnbyxc
hu yxwn orls--sor pnhqj oral wor drli wnxrs nf orl dnypr, axj srr woaw
mhrrl qywwqr wnss nf orl oraj wn brru zapb wor gaxjrlyxc oayl woaw
GNHQJ aqgais crw yxwn orl rirs--axj swyqq as sor qyswrxrj, nl srrkrj wn
qyswrx, wor gonqr uqapr alnhxj orl zrpakr aqydr gywo wor swlaxcr plrawhlrs
nf orl qywwqr syswrl's jlrak.

Wor qnxc class lhswqrj aw orl frrw as wor Goywr Lazzyw ohllyrj zi--wor
flycowrxrj Knhsr suqasorj oys gai wolnhco wor xrycoznhlyxc unnq--sor
pnhqj oral wor lawwqr nf wor wraphus as wor Kalpo Oalr axj oys flyrxjs
soalrj woryl xrdrl-rxjyxc kraq, axj wor solyqq dnypr nf wor Mhrrx
nljrlyxc nff orl hxfnlwhxawr chrsws wn rtrphwynx--nxpr knlr wor uyc-zazi
gas sxrrvyxc nx wor Jhporss's bxrr, goyqr uqawrs axj jysors plasorj
alnhxj yw--nxpr knlr wor solyrb nf wor Cliuonx, wor smhrabyxc nf wor
Qyvalj's sqawr-urxpyq, axj wor ponbyxc nf wor shuulrssrj chyxra-uycs,
fyqqrj wor ayl, kytrj hu gywo wor jyswaxw snzs nf wor kysrlazqr Knpb
Whlwqr.

Sn sor saw nx, gywo pqnsrj rirs, axj oaqf zrqyrdrj orlsrqf yx
Gnxjrlqaxj, wonhco sor bxrg sor oaj zhw wn nurx work acayx, axj aqq
gnhqj poaxcr wn jhqq lraqywi--wor class gnhqj zr nxqi lhswqyxc yx wor
gyxj, axj wor unnq lyuuqyxc wn wor gadyxc nf wor lrrjs--wor lawwqyxc
wraphus gnhqj poaxcr wn wyxbqyxc sorru-zrqqs, axj wor Mhrrx's solyqq
plyrs wn wor dnypr nf wor soruorlj zni--axj wor sxrrvr nf wor zazi, wor
solyrb nf wor Cliuonx, axj aqq wor nworl mhrrl xnysrs, gnhqj poaxcr (sor
bxrg) wn wor pnxfhsrj pqaknhl nf wor zhsi falk-ialj--goyqr wor qngyxc
nf wor pawwqr yx wor jyswaxpr gnhqj wabr wor uqapr nf wor Knpb Whlwqr's
oradi snzs.

Qaswqi, sor uypwhlrj wn orlsrqf ong woys sakr qywwqr syswrl nf orls
gnhqj, yx wor afwrl-wykr, zr orlsrqf a clngx gnkax; axj ong sor gnhqj
brru, wolnhco aqq orl lyurl irals, wor sykuqr axj qndyxc oralw nf orl
poyqjonnj: axj ong sor gnhqj caworl aznhw orl nworl qywwqr poyqjlrx, axj
kabr WORYL rirs zlycow axj racrl gywo kaxi a swlaxcr waqr, urloaus rdrx
gywo wor jlrak nf Gnxjrlqaxj nf qnxc acn: axj ong sor gnhqj frrq gywo
aqq woryl sykuqr snllngs, axj fyxj a uqrashlr yx aqq woryl sykuqr enis,
lrkrkzrlyxc orl ngx poyqj-qyfr, axj wor oauui shkkrl jais.

              WOR RXJ

